Abney, Steven Paul. 1987. The English Noun Phrase in its Sentential Aspect. Doctoral dissertation, MIT.

This dissertation is a defense of the hypothesis that the noun phrase is headed by a functional element (i.e., "non-lexical" category) D, identified with the determiner. In this way, the structure of the noun phrase parallels that of the sentence, which is headed by Infl(ection), under assumptions now standard within the Government-Binding (GB) framework.

The central empirical problem addressed is the question of the proper analysis of the so-called "Poss-ing" gerund in English. This construction possesses simultaneously many properties of sentences, and many properties of noun phrases. The problem of capturing this dual aspect of the Poss-inq construction is heightened by current restrictive views of X-bar theory, which, in particular, rule out the obvious structure for Poss-ing, [NP NP VPing], by virtue of its exocentricity.

Consideration of languages in which nouns, even the most basic concrete nouns, show agreement (AGR) with their possessors, points to an analysis of the noun phrase as headed by an element similar to Infl, which provides a position for AGR; I call this Infl-like element "D". D and Infl belong to the class of non-lexical categories, which I prefer to call functional categories. The analysis in which D heads the noun phrase I call the "DP-analysis".

Importing the DP-analysis into English yields an immediate solution for the problem of the Poss-ing gerund: Poss-ing gerunds (and by extension, noun phrases generally) have a more sentence-like structure than hitherto thought, namely, [DP DP's D VPing]. (In non-gerundive noun phrases, "VP" is replaced by a projection of N. This projection of N, despite being a maximal X-bar projection, corresponds to N-bar in the standard analysis.)


Current trends in the treatment of minor categories -- so-called "non-lexical" categories -- lead us to a similar conclusion. Until recently, minor categories like complementizers and modals had been treated as syncategorematic. Under current assumptions, however, they participate fully in the X-bar schema. In this way, two simplifications are achieved simultaneously: we eliminate syncategorematic elements, and we acquire an endocentric analysis of the sentence, which had been exceptional in being the only exocentric major category. To make these results - fully general, we are led to treat the remaining syncategorematic elements -- in particular, determiners in noun phrases and degree words in adjective phrases -- as heads of full phrases. The analogy with complementizers and modals indicates that determiners and degree words should head noun phrases and adjective phrases, respectively. In other words, determiners are lexical instantiations of "D"  in the same way that modals are lexical instantiations of Infl.

However, despite the conceptual links, the question of the existence of a functional head of the noun phrase (the DP-analysis), and the question of the place of the determiner, are independent questions, and I treat them separately: Chapters One through Three are concerned predominately with the former question, Chapter Four with the latter.

Chapter One provides a brief introduction. In Chapter Two I present the DP-analysis, motivating it by examining languages with agreement between noun and possessor. I also discuss issues raised by the DP-analysis, with emphasis on the parallelism between noun phrase and sentence hypothesized under the DP-analysis. In particular, I treat the question of PRO in the noun phrase; and I show that the numerous differences between sentence and noun phrase do not invalidate the parallelism of structure proposed under the DP-analysis. In Chapter Three I apply the analysis to the three gerundive constructions, Acc-ing, Poss-ing, and Ing-of. Finally, in Chapter Four, I turn to the question of whether the determiner is the lexical instantiation of D, the functional head of the noun phrase.

Thesis Supervisor: Dr. Richard K. Larson
Title: Assistant Professor of Linguistics