MULTIPLE AGREEMENT AND CASE DELETION: AGAINST phi- (IN)COMPLETENESS 
Vicki Carstens 
Abstract. I argue against Chomsky’s (1999, 2000) proposal that Case deletion 
correlates with the phi-completeness of probes, based on (i) the omission of gender in 
subject agreement in, for example, Romance languages; and (ii) the inclusion of full 
phi-features in subject agreement in Bantu, repeated on all verbal heads within a clause. 
I propose instead a return to the traditional view that certain categories are Case 
‘‘assigners,’’ such that Agree deletes the goal’s Case only if the probe has an intrinsic 
structural Case value. Finally, I show that Agree so modified accounts for concord in 
noun phrases, including concord on ‘of’ in African languages, reflecting phi-features of 
head nouns. Crucial to this account is a structural analysis in which ‘of’ is merged with 
a nominal constituent that includes the head noun but excludes the surface ‘of’ object, 
be it possessor, agent, or theme. 
1. The Agree Relation 
It is fairly common in syntactic theory to suppose that a relationship exists 
between Case and agreement. A recent instantiation of this idea is Chomsky’s 
(1999, 2000) proposal that uninterpretable phi-features delete Case through the 
relation called Agree. The phi-features of an agreeing element a, which are 
called a probe, seek a goal element b with interpretable phi-features and an 
unchecked structural Case feature, under Chomsky’s theory. When the search 
succeeds, the Agree relation results, deleting a’s phi-features and b’s Case. 
This is necessary because both Case and the uninterpretable phi-features of 
agreement are illicit at LF, owing to their lack of interpretations. 
Once its Case is eliminated, b ceases to be a candidate for further Agree 
relations and accordingly for A-movement, which is tied to instances of 
Agree. 
As Chomsky notes, not all agreement relations can be taken to delete Case. 
To see why this is so, consider (1a). Here the subject is a deep object and 
enters into two Agree relations before raising to its surface position. The first 
is motivated by past participle agreement (PPA) on morte, the features of 
which are, by assumption, deleted in an Agree relation with elle. The Case of 
elle appears not to be deleted in this relation, however, as a second Agree 
relation is then established between elle and subject agreement (SA) on T0, 
here instantiated as the auxiliary est. This deletes both the nominative Case of 
elle and the phi-features of est. Elle then raises to [Spec,TP] to satisfy the EPP 
feature of est. 

Henceforth I use the term multiple agreement to refer to such cases, wherein a 
many-to-one relation exists between agreeing categories and agreed-with 
nominal. 
In light of multiple agreement phenomena like (1), Chomsky (1999, 2000) 
proposes that agreement deletes Case only if it is phi-complete. Predicate 
adjectives and past participles are phi-incomplete, agreeing only in a subset of 
the possible phi-features. As a result, they do not affect the Case of the DP they 
agree with; the DP must therefore enter into a subsequent Agree relation with 
a phi-complete element like the auxiliary in (1) for a licit result to be obtained. 
Its Case deleted, the DP, in this case elle, enters into no other agreement 
relations and raises no further. 
2. A Problem for phi-(in)completeness 
A serious problem for this proposal becomes apparent on consideration of the 
features involved in (1). Although it is true that agreement on the past 
participle lacks the full complement of phi-features, consisting as it does of 
number and gender only, subject agreement is similarly partial in features: it 
includes person and number features only, omitting gender. Thus both 
agreeing elements in (1) are phi-incomplete; yet one appears to check Case, 
whereas the other does not. 

Gender is systematically excluded from the features of subject agreement in 
Indo-European languages with gender systems.1 Hence the facts are not 
plausibly attributed to an accidental gap in subject-agreement paradigms, any 
more than is the omission of person in agreement on the past participle. 
1 Subject agreement in Bantu and Afro-Asiatic includes gender features, however. See 
section 3. 


Based on (1) and (2) alone, we might amend Chomsky’s characterization 
of when Case deletes, as in (3): 
(3) Person features are crucial to Case deletion. 
(3) maintains Chomsky’s assumption that the absence of person features on 
participles and predicate adjectives keeps them from deleting Case. It is 
consistent with the facts of subject agreement in (1) and (2) as well. 
However, (3) does not suffice to explain all the facts. For one thing, 
Chomsky analyzes certain instances of nondeleting Case in terms of phi- 
incompleteness due to specification for person features only. Chomsky argues 
that the infinitival T0 of raising and ECM clauses has an uninterpretable 
person feature. This feature must be deleted and therefore acts as a probe, 
giving rise to an Agree relation and hence raising of a DP to the embedded 
subject position in cases like (4). A subsequent Agree relation between the 
matrix v and the embedded subject deletes the latter’s accusative Case (see 
Chomsky 1999:5). 

The abstract person features that Chomsky hypothesizes here are connected 
to his proposal that the Agree relation is prerequisite to movement. We might 
abandon this view, assume that infinitival T0 has no phi-features, and adopt (3), 
or alternatively (30). Both moves are consistent with (2) and (4):2 
(30) Person and number together delete Case. 
But multiple agreement in Bantu compound tense constructions (CTs) shows 
that differentiating among phi-features is not the answer.3 In CTs, overt person 
agreement apparently fails to delete Case. More than this, CTs show that full 
agreement in all phi-features is compatible with A-movement. As a result, the 
proposed relationship between Case and phi-specification cannot be 
maintained in any form. 
2 My thanks to an anonymous Syntax reviewer for pointing out these possibilities. 
3 See also multiple subject agreement in Arabic, described by Bahloul and Harbert (1992). 

3. Compound Tenses 
In Swahili CTs, tense morphology appears as an affix on the verb ‘be’, which 
also inflects for agreement with the surface subject. Aspectual auxiliaries and 
verbs bearing aspectual morphemes follow, each agreeing with the subject as 
well, as shown in (5). Note that agreement includes person features in these 
examples. 

Carstens and Kinyalolo (1989) analyze CTs in terms of a failure of aspectbearing 
verbs to undergo raising. ‘‘Dummy’’ ‘be’ is required to support the 
tense morpheme, each aspectual category remains in situ, and the subject, 
raising Spec-to-Spec en route to a Case position in [Spec,TP], licenses 
multiple instances of subject agreement. 
(6) [T00 Jumai [T0 a-li-kuwa [ASP00 ti [ASP0 a -me-pikav [vP ti [VP tv chakula]]]]]] 
Carstens and Kinyalolo support this analysis by demonstrating that CTs are 
raising constructions, placing no thematic restrictions on their subjects. 
Whereas the examples in (5) contain agent subjects, the CT subjects in (7)– 
(9) are a theme, an expletive, and an idiom chunk, respectively.4 

Analyzed in the framework of Chomsky (1999, 2000), each instance of 
agreement in a CT indicates a probe-goal relation that deletes the 
uninterpretable phi-features of the probe. (5a) appears to involve two such 
relations, only the second of which deletes the subject’s Case: 
4 The analysis is consistent with the status of ‘be’ as a raising verb; cf. Stowell (1978). 


Consider the identity of the phi-features that appear as agreement within CTs. 
Note that they are the same on all verbal elements in a given CT—that is, the 
downstairs agreement, which functions as Probe 1, includes the same features 
as the higher Probe 2. Under Chomsky’s approach, it is necessary to conclude 
that of two or more identical instances of agreement, one deletes Case and the 
other does not. Note also that the phi-features of agreement in a CT perfectly 
match those of the surface subject, in person and number (5) or in noun class 
(7)–(9). I follow Carstens 1991, 1997 in analyzing Bantu noun class as 
number and gender. Thus, each agreeing head in a CT inflects for all 
available person, number, and gender features of the surface subject; each 
agreeing head is phi-complete. 
4. Proposal 
4.1 The Case-Assigning Property 
Case and agreement correlate with sufficient regularity that a relationship 
between them seems well motivated; something other than phi-incompleteness 
must account for the exceptions, however. A simple solution to this problem 
lies in the traditional assumption that only certain heads assign Case. I 
propose that Agree does not delete the goal’s Case feature unless the probe 
has an intrinsic value for structural Case, that is, belongs to the traditional 
class of structural Case assigners. The Agree relation operates as in (11). 
(11) In the Agree relation: 
a. A probe a has uninterpretable phi-features. 
b. A goal b has matching phi-features. 
c. Uninterpretable phi-features are valued, and delete. 
d. If a has an intrinsic structural Case value, it values any unvalued 
Case feature of b; the two Case features then delete. 
In point of fact this is not an independent modification to Chomsky’s theory, 
wherein the Case-assigning property of relevant heads continues to play a 
small role. Consider the facts of Case agreement on passive participles in 
Scandinavian. The construction is illustrated in schematic form in (12), taken 
from Chomsky (1999:13–14). 

Chomsky argues that four Agree relations contribute to the derivation of 
(12a). First, Agree between the past participle (PRT) and the direct object 
‘several fish’ deletes the participle’s uninterpretable number and gender 
features. Second, Agree between the matrix T0 and the expletive ‘there’ 
deletes the latter’s uninterpretable person feature and induces it to raise. 
Third, Agree between T0 and the participle values and deletes the latter’s 
nominative Case feature. Given that each of these relations involves a phi- 
incomplete category, the Case feature of ‘several fish’ and the phi-features of 
T0 are undeleted at this point. A fourth and final application of Agree values 
and deletes the nominative Case of ‘several fish’ and deletes T0’s phi- 
features.5,6 
A question arises as to why the initial Agree relation between the participle 
and the direct object does not delete the former’s Case feature, because the 
latter is phi-complete. Although it is typically the goal whose Case deletes, there 
is some symmetricality among the feature-deletion cases Chomsky discusses; 
uninterpretable person features of expletive goals delete in Agree relations, for 
example, as do the uninterpretable number and gender features of the 
participial goal under Chomsky’s analysis of (12). The question therefore 
bears consideration. Chomsky explains that ‘‘Case is unvalued for both PRT 
and DO, so neither can assign a Case value to the other’’ (Chomsky 1999:14); 
in a footnote he adds that ‘‘both PRT and DO lack the structural Case-assigning 
property of T and v’’ (Chomsky 1999:37, note 36). 
Thus, Case deletion relies not only on phi-completeness; it is also 
contingent on the potential agent of deletion’s ability to assign a Case value. 
But if this is true, the role of phi-completeness in the theory is 
redundant—agreeing passive participles, predicate adjectives, and infinitival 
T0 can be assumed not to delete Case through the Agree relation because they 
lack the Case-assigning feature, which may be interpreted as an intrinsic 
value for a particular structural Case.7 
5 This is possible despite the fact that the participle’s phi-features are deleted in the earliest 
Agree relation—that between the participle and the direct object. What makes the participle 
available as a probe nonetheless is the continued presence of those features in the syntactic 
representation, until they are sent to Spell-Out at the next strong phase. See note 7. 
6 Yet the participle does not act as a ‘‘defective intervener’’ in cases of passive raising; 
presumably because it is not the head of an A-chain (Chomsky 1999). 
7 Chomsky’s treatment of these Scandinavian facts is suggestive of an alternative to my 
account—namely, that all instances of Agree delete Case, but deleted Case is accessible until the 
next strong phase (Chomsky 1999:14). This approach accounts for the multiple agreement facts 
but wrongly predicts the sentences in (i) to be well formed. In (i), an Agree relation with the 
infinitival T0 by assumption precedes raising of the DP ‘John’ to the embedded subject position, 
so would delete this DP’s Case; then merger of expletive it in the matrix clause could check the 
uninterpretable phi-features of the matrix T0 because it has full phi-features. In (ii), Agree between 
the participle and elle would check the phi-features of the former and the Case of the latter. Merger 
of expletive il would value and delete the agreement features of T0, ensuring a grammatical 
result. 

4.2 When phi-incompleteness Matters 
There is a class of cases in which I assume with Chomsky that phi- 
incompleteness does result in a failure of feature deletion: this is when a goal 
does not have all the features needed to match the probe. As analyzed in 
Chomsky 1999, 2000, [expletive . . . DP] constructions are one such case. 
Chomsky proposes that the expletive there is specified only for an 
uninterpretable feature of person. This person feature makes it possible for 
the expletive to enter into an Agree relation with finite T0 in (13) (adapted 
from Chomsky 1999:12). Agree deletes the expletive’s person, and the 
expletive raises to satisfy the EPP feature of T0. The relation does not 
however delete T0’s phi-features, because there is phi-incomplete. T0 therefore 
enters into a second Agree relation, with the associate a man. This relation 
deletes T0’s phi-features and the Case of a man. 

I adopt this account and the general conclusion that if a probe a has a fuller 
set of phi-features than a goal b, b cannot delete a’s phi-features. I assume also 
that if a is a Case assigner, its Case feature is not deleted; thus the Case and 
phi-features of a Case-assigning probe are deleted together, by a single goal. 
This conclusion has an application in the analysis of concord, discussed in 
section 5. 
5. Concord 
Agree, modified as in section 4, provides an elegant analysis of concord in 
noun phrases. Given that concord involves multiple agreement with a single 
item as a matter of course, this is an important extension of the theory. 
Consider the Italian examples in (14), in which determiner, adjective, and 
pronoun inflect for the number and gender of the head noun. 
Thus, the assumption that all Agree relations delete Case is untenable, and there is no reason to 
suppose that deleted Case is ever syntactically accessible. The sole empirical motivation for 
assuming deleted features are active seems to lie in Case agreement between the Scandinavian 
passive participle and its nominative object in (12) (Chomsky 1999:14; see my note 5). But these 
facts are explained under the alternative assumption that any unvalued feature suffices to identify 
a potential goal, including the Case of the participle in (12). 


I represent noun phrases as in (15), where n0 is a kind of light noun, 
analogous to v0 in that it selects and h-marks a possessor or agent argument 
(see Carstens 2000 and section 6). Num0 is a midlevel functional category, 
analogous to T0 (Ritter 1991). As a point of departure, I adopt the view that 
surface word order in Romance noun phrases results from N-to-n-to-Num0 
raising, and raising of genitive pronouns like mie to [Spec,Num] (Valois 
1991, Cinque 1994). These assumptions are independently motivated in the 
works sited and in much related work on noun phrase structure; with them in 
place I can account for concord by means of three instances of Agree, as 
illustrated in (15). (Examples (14) and (15) are from Carstens 2000, which 
rejects this account.) 

None of the probes in the Agree relations depicted in (15) has a Caseassigning 
feature. Under the modified definition of Agree in (11), this makes 
it possible for N(P) in (15) to serve as goal to the multiple, non-Case-deleting, 
Agree relations that constitute concord. 
Carstens (2000) argues that concord on ‘of’ in Bantu and Afro-Asiatic 
languages poses problems for Agree. This is because ‘of’ agrees with the 
head noun, rather than with its apparent complement: 


Inextricably linked to this agreement problem is the question of the 
construction’s true properties: given the facts, either Agree must be the 
wrong theory of how agreement works, or (25c) is the wrong representation 
of an ‘of’ construction. I argue here for the latter position and propose a new 
account of ‘of’ constructions consistent with Agree. 
My point of departure is Kayne 1994, which proposes that ‘of’ and its 
surface object do not form a constituent. Kayne argues that ‘of’ is inserted to 
indefinite D0 to assign Case to a genitive phrase, as shown in (26a). The 
possessed NP then raises to [Spec,DP] (see (17b)). The approach constitutes 
an important first step toward explaining the agreement phenomena. 
Koopman (1996) suggests that the Spec-head relation between the 
possessed NP and of in (17) can explain agreement on ‘of’ in Bantu. But 
why the possessed NP should raise instead of the genitive phrase is not clear, 
as Carstens (2000) notes; the genitive phrase is closer to D0, making the 
proposed movement incompatible with minimalist assumptions. 

Kayne (1997, 1998) proposes a revision under which ‘of’ takes as 
complement a constituent a including the head noun and the genitive phrase. 
I illustrate for the Swahili example (16), in (18). The genitive phrase, in this 
case mwalimu ‘teacher’, raises to [Spec,ofP]; a functional category X0 is 
merged with ofP; a raises to [Spec,XP] and ‘of’ adjoins to X, yielding the 
surface order. 


Like its predecessor, this approach to ‘of’ is not completely satisfactory. It 
does not explain why ‘of’ agrees only with ‘teacher’ as Carstens (2000) 
points out, and the locality issue for raising a across ‘teacher’ remains. 
I adopt Kayne’s proposal that ‘of’ does not form a constituent with its 
surface object, and that the head noun comes to precede ‘of’ through leftward 
movement of its containing category. I depart from his assumptions in taking 
‘of’ to be an instantiation of n0 in (15).8 This means that the possessor is base 
generated in the specifier of ‘of’, and the complement to ‘of’ is the NP 
containing the head noun, as shown in (19). It follows that ‘of’ inflects for the 
phi-features of the head noun:9 
(19) 
Although this accounts for the agreement facts, it yields the wrong word 
order. In Chomsky’s theory, Agree underlies all movements that might derive the correct order, as noted in section 2.


8 An anonymous reviewer asks why ‘of’ is not instead analyzed as Number. ‘of’ correlates 
with the presence of arguments, rather than with any singular/plural value. 
9 The order posited as underlying in (19) is the surface order in Wolof, and ‘of’ also agrees 
with the head noun in that language (Collins, p.c.). 


 I will show that Agree, as modified in 
section 4, suffices to account for this aspect of the construction as well as for 
its agreement properties. 
Surface word order calls for raising of ‘of’ to precede the possessor and 
raising of the NP ‘book’ to precede them both. I propose that the derivation 
proceeds as follows. First, an optional EPP-feature of n0 causes the NP ‘book’ 
to raise from complement of n0 to nP’s outer specifier (see (20a)). Next, a 
silent functional head F is merged with nP, as shown in (20b).10 I assume that 
F has abstract uninterpretable phi-features but assigns no Case. An Agree 
relation is established between F and ‘book’. An EPP-feature of F then drives 
‘book’ to raise to [Spec,FP] as shown in (20c). Finally, ‘of’ raises to F (20d). 
10 Under minimalist assumptions, F must have semantic content; I leave this question for 
future study. 


Note that the possessor is never in an Agree relation with F, under this 
account, eliminating any expectation that the phi-features of F will be valued 
by the possessor and show up on ‘of’ in Bantu, either instead of or in addition 
to those valued by the head noun. 
Theme arguments of nouns are also introduced by ‘of’ in Bantu, bearing 
agreement with the head noun. It follows that themes are also generated in 
[Spec,nP] rather than in sister to N0 position. Thus N0 takes no direct 
arguments. 


Noun phrases containing multiple ofPs are unacceptable to most speakers of 
Swahili, but this is not true of all languages. An optimal approach will extend 
to languages that allow multiple arguments of nouns introduced by ‘of’. 
Consider French, which permits multiple lexical arguments in noun phrases, 
each introduced by ‘of’ (Valois 1991). The account requires only that each 
argument be merged in the specifier of an additional n0, whose projection is 
complement to an additional F. The derivation in (21b) simply continues 
through a second set of movements. 
(22) a. le portrait de Rembrandt d’ Aristote (Valois 1991) 
the portrait of Rembrandt of Aristotle 
‘Rembrandt’s portrait of Aristotle’ 


Why, though, should some languages permit more than one ofP and others 
not? I suggest that F in languages like French is a Case assigner, able to 
delete the Case feature of the DP in [Spec,nP]. In a language like Swahili that 
allows only one argument introduced by ‘of’, this DP must have its Case 
deleted by the higher, Case-assigning head Num0. When this happens, Num’s 
Case feature is deleted and cannot value and delete the Case features of any 
additional DPs. 
F thus enters into Agree relations with the head noun and the noun’s 
argument both, in languages like French. This perhaps explains the absence 
of inflection on French ‘of’ if, as a morphological property, it cannot agree 
overtly with both items. 
With this proposal in mind, consider (23). For F to check the Case of the 
DP Aristote it must fail to check Case with the NP portrait, although it enters 
an Agree relation with it first, leading to raising of portrait to [Spec,FP]. How 
can this be possible? 


Recall that phi-incompleteness of a goal prevents it from deleting the probe’s 
features (see section 4.2). It has been proposed that person is a feature of D0 
rather than N0 (Ritter 1991, among others) and that interpretable number 
features head their own midlevel projection in the DP, as illustrated in (15). If 
Case-assigning F has full phi-features, they cannot be valued in the Agree 
relation with the NP portrait. Accordingly, portrait deletes none of the 
features of F, and F must enter into an Agree relation with the DP Aristote for 
deletion of its agreement and Case. 
6. Conclusion 
Based on cases of multiple agreement, I have shown that there is no 
correlation between Case checking and the phi-completeness of probes in 
either French or Swahili.11 In French participial constructions, all instances of 
agreement omit some phi-feature of the subject, and thus are phi-incomplete; in 
Swahili CTs, all instances of agreement reflect the full phi-feature set of the 
surface subject, and thus are phi-complete. 
The facts can be taken as evidence that agreement and, in particular, the 
Agree relation, play no role in Case deletion. But this seems too strong a 
conclusion, given frequent correlations between agreement and Case across 
languages. Alternatively, a relationship between agreement and Case can be 
maintained if Case is deleted in the Agree relation with a Case assigner. I 
have argued for the latter position. 
I have proposed an account of concord in noun phrases in terms of this 
modified version of Agree. Given that concord consistently involves multiple  agreement, it is of critical importance to the question of how Agree and Case 
deletion relate.


11 These languages serve to represent systematic problems, as noted in section 1: Romance, 
Slavic, and Scandinavian are among those groups that pattern with French, and other Bantu 
languages are like Swahili; see also Kural 1993 on subject raising out of Turkish infinitives 
containing full subject agreement; Bahloul and Harbert’s (1992) description of compound tenses 
in Arabic; and Watanabe 1993 on subject raising out of Balkan subjunctive clauses containing 
subject agreement in person and number. 

 
The analysis of concord on ‘of’ involves raising of the NP constituent to 
[Spec,ofP] and to the specifiers of higher functional categories F. Thus N0- 
raising is not what underlies NSO order, contra Ritter (1991), Carstens 
(1991), Valois (1991), Cinque (1994), among many others.12 
The concord facts motivate an analysis of ‘of’ constructions that is 
antisymmetric in the sense of Kayne 1994 and that adopts Kayne’s insight 
that ‘of’ and its surface object are not a constituent. ‘Of’ is known to be 
irrelevant to binding relations among the arguments within DP (see Giorgi & 
Longobardi 1991 for detailed discussion); the analysis presented here 
accounts for this. 
The status of n(P) perhaps requires some comment. n0 differs from v* in 
assigning no Case; this is a matter of lexical properties. It is reasonable 
nonetheless to expect that the highest nP in any DP is a phrase, given that it 
constitutes the domain of full argument structure for noun phrases in cases 
like (22). Under the analysis I have proposed, it is indeed n0 that permits an 
extra specifier, thus provides a landing site for movement, like v* does at the 
clausal level. Further research is called for comparing these categories and 
accounting for the differences between them; the parallels are promising and 
intriguing. 
References 
BAHLOUL, M. & W. HARBERT. 1992. Some agreement asymmetries in Arabic. 
Proceedings of WCCFL 11, ed. J. Mead, 15–31. Stanford, Calif.: CSLI Publications. 
CARSTENS, V. 2000. Concord in minimalist theory. Linguistic Inquiry 31:319–355. 
CARSTENS, V. 1997. Empty nouns in Bantu locatives. The Linguistic Review 
14:361–410. 
CARSTENS, V. & K. KINYALOLO. 1989. On IP structure: Tense, aspect, and 
agreement. Ms., Cornell University and UCLA. 
CHOMSKY, N. 1995. The Minimalist Program. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. 
CHOMSKY, N. 1999. Derivation by phase. Ms., MIT, Cambridge, Mass. 
CHOMSKY, N. 2000. Minimalist inquiries. In Step by step: Studies in honor of 
Howard Lasnik, ed. R. Martin, D. Michaels & J. Uriagereka, 89–155. Cambridge, 
Mass.: MIT Press. 
CINQUE, G. 1994. On the evidence for partial N-movement in the Romance DP. In 
Paths towards Universal Grammar: Studies in honor of Richard S. Kayne, ed. G. 
Cinque, J. Koster, J.-Y. Pollock, L. Rizzi & R. Zanuttini, 85–110. Washington, DC: 
Georgetown University Press. 
GIORGI, A. & G. LONGOBARDI. 1991. The syntax of noun phrases. New York: 
Cambridge University Press. 
KAYNE, R. 1994. The antisymmetry of syntax. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. 
KAYNE, R. 1997. Class lectures. LSA Linguistic Institute, Cornell University, Ithaca. 
KAYNE, R. 1998. A note on prepositions and complementizers. Ms., New York 
University. 
12 Shlonsky (2000) arrives at the same general conclusion based on word-order variation 
among nouns, adjectives, and quantifiers in Semitic languages. 

KOOPMAN, H. 1997. The Spec-head relation. In UCLA Working Papers in Syntax 
and Semantics 1, 37–64. Los Angeles: UCLA Department of Linguistics. 
KURAL, M. 1993. V-to-(I-to)-C in Turkish. In UCLA Occasional Papers in 
Linguistics 11, ed. F. Beghelli & M. Kural, 1–37. Los Angeles: UCLA Department 
of Linguistics. 
RITTER, E. 1988. A head-movement approach to construct-state noun phrases. 
Linguistics 26:909–929. 
RITTER, E. 1991. Two functional categories in noun phrases: Evidence from modern 
Hebrew. Syntax and semantics 25: Perspectives on phrase structure, ed. S. 
Rothstein, 37–62. San Diego, Calif.: Academic Press. 
SHLONSKY, U. The form of Semitic noun phrases. Ms., University of Geneva. 
VALOIS, D. 1991. The syntax of DP. Ph.D. dissertation, University of California, Los 
Angeles. 
WATANABE, A. 1993. The notion of finite clauses. In Papers on Case & Agreement 
I. MIT Working Papers in Linguistics 18, ed. J. Bobaljik. & C. Phillips, 281–296. 
Cambridge, Mass: MIT Working Papers in Linguistics. 
Vicki Carstens 
University of Missouri–Columbia 
Department of English 
107 Tate Hall 
Columbia, MO 65211-1500 
USA 
carstensv@missouri.edu 

