CAROLINE HEYCOCK and ROBERTO ZAMPARELLI 
FRIENDS AND COLLEAGUES: PLURALITY, 
COORDINATION, AND THE STRUCTURE OF DP* 
Starting from an analysis for the crosslinguistic variation in the grammaticality of DPinternal 
conjunctions such as This [man and woman] are in love, this article develops a 
theory of the syntax/semantics interface within the DP and a novel proposal for the 
interpretation of conjunction. The main claims are that plural/mass denotations are built 
in stages within the DP, by the combined effect of number features and semantic 
operators associated with functional heads; that languages differ in whether the denotation 
of nouns is filtered for singular or plural number; and that the word and crosslinguistically 
denotes SET PRODUCT, an operation which, in different contexts, can mimic 
the behavior of intersection and union. 
Keywords: conjunction, plurality, number, DP-structure, syntax/semantics interface 
1. INTRODUCTION 
This paper presents a little-known set of data concerning conjunction inside 
the noun phrase, and shows how this domain includes structures with 
readings which are unexpected under any current theory of the semantics of 
coordination. Moreover, these readings are shown to vary across languages 
in an interesting and systematic fashion, and to depend on the choice of 
determiners outside the conjunction. 
Our goal is to account for these facts without having to posit an extra 
meaning for and. The attempt rests on three pillars: a theory of the syntax/ 
semantics interface for Determiner Phrases, based on the idea that the 
semantic number for a noun phrase is built ‘‘in stages’’ inside the DP, 
through the combined semantic effect of two independent functional heads; 
a syntactic parameter which distinguishes English from Romance languages 
with respect to the realization of Number; and a novel semantics for conjunction, 
which – in different contexts – can mimic either union or intersection. We will try to show that these proposals can be independently 
motivated, and that, when combined, they converge on the desired crosslinguistic 
distribution for the DP-conjunction facts under consideration. 
To the extent that our analysis is successful, it supports the existence of a 
mapping between syntactically motivated functional heads and semantic 
functions, and speaks in favor of a tighter integration between syntactic and 
semantic approaches to language. 
2. THE PROBLEM 
2.1. Distributive and Collective Conjunction 
The background to this study is a well-known puzzle in the semantics of 
conjunction. If we take the standard semantic view that predicates denote 
properties – sets of individuals in an extensional Montegovian framework – 
constituent conjunction of predicates as in (1) can be straightforwardly 
mapped onto the operation of set intersection. 
(1)a. My uncle is [short and fat]. 
b. My uncle is [a good father and an excellent husband]. 
The conjunction of two argument noun phrases, however, cannot be mapped 
onto intersection with the same ease. For instance, the conjunction in 
(2) does not denote the intersection of the property of being John and that of 
being Mary, but, pretheoretically, a plurality formed by the two entities 
which John and Mary individually denote. 
(2)a. [John and Mary] danced. 
b. [John and Mary] met. 
Even setting aside the fact that and can conjoin many other categories, the 
difference between (1) and (2) raises issues for the possibility of a unified analysis 
of the meaning of and. There are nevertheless compelling motivations for a 
unified analysis; first and foremost the observation (made most forcefully in 
Winter l996, citing a survey in Payne 1985) that no language seems to have 
differentwords for the intersective and in (1) and the plurality-forming and in (2). 
Treating noun phrases as generalized quantifiers (sets of properties) 
appears to offer a promising solution under the banner of intersection. And 
in (2 a) can be rendered as intersection just as in (1): the conjoined noun 
phrase denotes the intersection of the properties independently possessed by 
John and Mary. This solution still leaves as a problem the behavior of 
conjoined noun phrases in sentences with non-distributive – ‘‘collective’’ – 
predicates (e.g. meet, be together); since meet in (2 b) denotes a property 

which is not independently possessed by either John or Mary, it will not be 
found in the intersection of the GQs built on John and Mary; something else 
therefore needs to be said for these cases. Some authors have responded to 
this problem by adopting a non-Boolean view of conjunction (e.g. Hoeksema 
1983; Krifka 1990); Winter (1996) pursues instead the strategy of 
adapting an intersective (or Boolean; Winter 1998, 2001) semantics for and 
also to these cases of collective conjunction. 
While the debate in the last ten years has been lively and productive, the 
set of data considered in the semantic literature has always had at its core 
the cases illustrated in (1)–(2): conjunction of whole noun phrases, in 
English, functioning as the subjects of a range of distributive and nondistributive 
predicates. Building on Heycock and Zamparelli (1999) and 
Heycock and Zamparelli (2000), this paper aims to turn the attention of the 
linguistic community to the largely uncharted domain of conjunction inside 
the noun phrase, and to the analytic challenges and possibilities opened up 
by a comparative view that looks beyond English. 
2.2. Conjunction within the Noun Phrase 
In extensional Montague semantics, common nouns – just like adjectives – 
denote properties (type <e,t>). This denotation combines with the 
denotation of the determiner to yield an e,t>,t> type denotation (a 
Generalized Quantifier), or alternatively, an e-type denotation if we follow 
Heim’s (1982) quantifier raising system, or a type-shifting system a` la Partee 
(1987), Partee and Rooth (1983). Montague’s semantics for common nouns 
can easily be mapped onto the more elaborate syntactic structure for noun 
phrases originating with Abney (1987): the Determiner Phrase (DP) 
hypothesis. Under this hypothesis, the determiner heads the whole noun 
phrase and the noun heads its own internal projection, NP.1 The semantic 
distinction between Montague’s ‘‘full noun phrases’’ and ‘‘common nouns’’ 
can be recast assuming a division of labor between the two projections DP 
and NP (see Stowell 1983; Higginbotham 1987; Hudson 1989; Longobardi 
l994; Chierchia l998 a,b; Longobardi 1999, among others): 
(3) noun phrase = [DP Det [NP (Adjs) Noun]] 
(4)a. DPs can be arguments. 
b. NPs are predicates. 
1 The terminology in this area is unfortunately confusing. In the rest of this paper, we follow 
typical recent practice in using the expression ‘‘noun phrase’’ to mean the extended projection of 
N, namely the DP, and the acronym NP to refer to the immediate maximal projection of N, 
inside the DP. 

Syntactic work subsequent to Abney 1987 (including at least Valois 1991; 
Cinque 1990; Crisma 1991; Cinque 1994; Giusti 1992; Bernstein 1993; and 
Zamparelli 1995, 1998) has added various functional projections (FPs) 
between D and the NP proper, to host attributive adjectives and other DPinternal 
modifiers (in particular, numerals). Semantically, this move has 
pushed upward the boundary of the part of DP which has to be interpreted 
‘‘predicatively’’ from NP to some FP immediately under D. For the time 
being, we will take the predicate to be NP, but we will partially correct this 
simplifying assumption in section 4. 
If NPs are predicates, the null hypothesis is that the conjunction of two 
NPs under a common determiner should behave exactly like the conjunction 
of two predicative adjectives, as in (1 a). Indeed, this prediction seems correct 
for (5), where each DP refers to a single individual who has both the 
property of being a friend and the property of being a colleague. Henceforth, 
we refer to this reading of conjunction-containing DPs as the JOINT 
reading}}.2 
(5)a. [DP My [NP friend and colleague]] is writing a paper. 
b. [DP That [NP liar and cheat]] is not to be trusted. 
This would be all there is to say on the matter, if we considered only singular 
count nouns and most languages other than English. In English, however, 
the following sentences are also grammatical. 
(6)a. [DP This [NP man and woman]] are in love. 
b. [DP This [NP soldier and sailor]] are inseparable. 
The DPs in (6) refer to pairs of individuals, as is made clear by the verbal 
agreement. Despite the singular morphology of the determiner and both Ns, 
the DPs do not each refer to a singular individual with the properties of 
being both a man and a woman, or a soldier and a sailor. Pretheoretically, it 
seems that each property in the conjunction applies to a distinct individual: 
2 properties lead to 2 individuals. We call this reading of the DP the SPLIT 
interpretation. 
If NPs are properties, i.e. sets of individuals, and and denotes set intersection, 
the existence of a split reading is completely unexpected, as pointed 
out in Bergmann’s (1982) squib. For one thing, no comparable split interpretation 
seems to exist for cases of copular predication: A recent event was 
sad and unexpected cannot mean ‘A recent eventi was sad, and a recent 
2 Throughout this paper we use the terminology joint/split reading pretheoretically. As will 
become clear, we do not mean to suggest that the existence of these two ‘‘readings’’ implies the 
existence of a lexical or structural ambiguity. 

eventj, unexpected.’3 Moreover, a cursory crosslinguistic look reveals that 
English is unusual (though not unique) in allowing a split reading in singular 
conjunction: in many other languages the direct equivalent of (6) is sharply 
ungrammatical, as illustrated by the French example in (7). 
(7) *[Ce [marin et soldat]] sont souvent ensemble. 
[this [sailor and soldier]] are often together 
The restricted crosslinguistic distribution of the split reading was noted by 
Dowty (1988) and has recently been presented and analyzed by King and 
Dalrymple (2004) for English, Finnish, Hindi and other languages. We will 
return to their analysis in section 6; at this point, however, a brief comment 
is probably in order to rule out a simple direction of analysis which might 
have occurred to some readers. This is the idea that split readings might be 
reduced to a separate phenomenon: the possibility – in British English – of 
using plural verb agreement with singular collective nouns: 
(8) That group / couple were eating lunch. 
For instance, one could imagine treating (6 a) as (9), with a silent noun 
meaning pair: 
(9) This man and woman pair were eating lunch. 
This simple way out is not viable, for a number of reasons. First, all our 
American informants have confirmed the existence of singular split readings 
in their varieties of English, while (8) is known to be ruled out in American 
English.4 Second, even for British speakers, (8) may also have singular verb 
agreement, while This man and woman was eating lunch is impossible with 
the 2-people meaning. Third, the conditions in which ‘‘silent pair-nouns’’ 
may appear remain entirely unspecified. For instance, if (9) exists, what 
could rule out *This Italian pair love each other? Fourth, the singular split 
reading is systematically present in residual forms even in languages, like 
Italian, that do not allow (6) or (8), as we will see in section 3.1. Finally, 
joint and split readings are also available for plural NPs, where a ‘‘silent 
pair’’ approach would have no effect. Thus, the most salient (perhaps the 
only) reading of (10 a) has two people, each of whom is both a friend and a 
colleague; the most salient reading of (10 b) is one in which 5 men and 5 
women got married. 
3 See, however, section 7.2 for a discussion of somewhat similar cases. 
4 Although some US speakers do report that plural agreement with couple is better than it is 
with government, team, etc. 

(10)a. [My two [friends and colleagues]] wrote their paper together. 
Joint 
b. [Ten [men and women]] got married today in San Pietro. 
Split 
Although plural split cases such as (10 b) are perhaps less striking than 
singular examples like (6) because there is no mismatch between the DPinternal 
agreement and the agreement on the verb, they are equally unexpected 
under an intersection analysis. 
Remarkably, languages which do not allow singular split cases almost 
always allow split readings in the plural:5 
(11) Ces marins et soldats sont souvent ensembles. 
these sailors and soldiers are often together 
(Possible description of a group with no one who is both a 
soldier and a sailor) 
Given these facts, three research issues arise: 
I. What semantics for conjunction can capture the full range of DPinternal 
cases? 
II. What is the difference between English and languages that do not allow 
a singular split reading? And why does this difference break down in the 
plural? 
III. Can a semantics that handles DP-internal conjunction correctly be 
extended to conjunction of other categories – at the least, conjunction 
of full DPs? 
The rest of the paper offers a detailed answer to the first two of these 
issues, and some ideas about how the third one might be tackled. Our 
strategy will be to tackle the problem in two parts. We focus on the paradigmatic 
split case in (12), with the bracketing indicated: 
(12) [DP this/a [NP man and woman]] are in love. 
We propose that the existence of this reading can be explained if: 
– the NP conjunction man and woman denotes the property of being a couple 
(of opposing sex); 
– the pluralities present in this NP denotation, i.e. the couples themselves, 
can be made compatible with a singular determiner such as this in 
languages which allow the singular split reading, and incompatible in 
those which don’t. 
5 The single exception of which we are aware is Greek, discussed in section 6.1. 

We will discuss these points in reverse order. In the next section, we take 
some time to lay out the data, many aspects of which have never been 
discussed in the literature from the perspective of the syntax/semantics 
interface. Next, in section 4, we concentrate on the second part of the 
problem; that is, we assume that man and woman does indeed denote the 
property of being a couple, and lay down a theory of how the denotation of 
NPs is formally processed within the DP – a theory of the syntax/semantics 
mapping in a nominal structure with multiple layers. The core idea is that 
singular-split and non-singular-split languages differ on a parameter that 
determines whether singular determiners ‘‘filter’’ the content of a plural 
property or not. This will answer research issue II above. 
In section 5, we go back to research issue I, to give a novel semantics for 
conjunction which justifies our previous assumption that man and woman 
does in fact denote the property of being a couple. We will show that this 
semantics interacts with the syntax/semantics interface to yield the full 
distribution of the split and joint readings both within and across the languages 
discussed. Section 6 discusses some alternative analyses. Finally, 
research issue III is addressed, far more briefly than it deserves, in section 7, 
together with some speculations on open issues. 
3. CONJUNCTION WITHIN THE DP: THE DATA 
3.1. Conjunction of Singulars 
The joint reading of singular DP-internal conjunction is illustrated again in 
(13). 
(13)a. In front of me, [a friend and colleague] was standing in line. 
b. [That famous linguist and political activist] is always shunned 
by the popular press. 
c. Anne married [the well-known composer and performer] in 
April 1956. 
d. Bill is [John’s friend and brother-in-law] 
For many speakers there is something odd about the joint reading in the 
presence of a singular definite determiner, except when the context makes 
available a very clear, unique referent. A survey of the British National 
Corpus shows in fact that these constructions are most commonly used as 
appositions, where the referent is maximally identifiable. The following are 
typical examples from the BNC: 
(14)a. Included in the pardon were General Leopoldo Galtieri, [the 
former army commander and president], and 38 other officers. 

b. Gordon Dunlop, [the former director and chief financial officer 
of British Airways], has turned his interest toward … 
It is important to stress that, out of context, all the DPs in (13) are 
ambiguous: a friend and colleague stereotypically refers to a single person, 
but it can also refer to two, as it does in Father Brown married a friend and 
colleague to each other. Of course, the context, verbal agreement, or the use 
of (in)compatible properties can bias the interpretation toward a split or a 
joint reading to a greater or lesser extent. Thus, the following cases allow 
only the split interpretation. 
(15)a. [My grandfather and great-grandfather] were both sailors. 
b. [That soldier and sailor] are always in agreement. 
c. [The red card and white card] face each other. 
A second point is that the split reading is not an idiomatic peculiarity 
within English, limited to a small number of potentially lexicalized pairs like 
bread and butter or to a limited subset of determiners. A search of the BNC 
reveals many examples of unambiguously split readings of DP-internal 
conjunction, with at least the following determiners and quantifiers:6 
(16)a. Definite determiner: … the actor’s work depends so much on the 
technical decisions of [the director and editor]… 
b. Indefinite determiner: In today’s preliminary hearings … [a 36- 
year-old farmer and 25-year-old X-ray technician] both claim a 
right to asylum… 
c. Demonstrative: [This global stance and anthropological imagination] 
continue to guide him … 
d. ‘‘One’’:… each item consisted of so many bars of [one tempo and 
time signature] … 
e. Possessive: [My mouth and throat] went dry… 
Split conjunction is also possible with every and each; the examples in (17) 
are also from the BNC. 
(17)a. Every: There is a Bastille in [every glen and firth]. 
b. Each:…the technical structure of [each step and pose] is known… 
Example (17 a) seems most plausibly interpreted as quantification over glens 
and over firths (river-mouths), rather than over glen-firth pairs; quantification 
over individuals rather than pairs is also clearly possible, and probably 
also the most plausible interpretation for each step and pose in (17 b). It 
is possible to construct examples which make this clearer: 
6 It is impossible to quantify exactly the percentage of split readings over the total number of 
DP-internal coordinations, since the context cannot fully disambiguate most of the cases. 

(18)a. Every man and woman has lived alone at some point. 
b. Each man and woman had to enter the room alone. 
Moreover, split readings seem available also for Dutch, particularly with 
definite determiners, though not as productively for pairs of semantically 
unrelated nouns (Jack Hoeksema, personal communication).7 
(19)a. Deze man en vrouw zijn gescheiden. Dutch 
this man and woman are divorced 
‘This man and woman are divorced.’ (not necessarily from 
each other) 
b. Dit mannetje en vrouwtje staan op de taart. 
this man-DIM and woman-DIM stand on the cake 
‘‘This little man (figurine) and woman (figurine) are on top of 
the cake.’’ 
c. ?Een man en vrouw stonden te roken. 
a man and woman were smoking 
Split readings also occur in Finnish.8 
(20)a. Ta¨ ma¨ mies ja nainen ta¨ ssa¨ laulavat kuorossa. Finnish 
this-SG man and woman here sing-PL in a choir 
b. Yksi sotilas ja merimies tappelivat kadulla. 
one soldier and sailor were fighting in the street 
On the other hand, in most languages we have looked at (Italian, Spanish, 
French, German)9 singular joint readings are possible, but singular split 
7 Flemish differs from Standard Dutch in not allowing split readings (Liliane Haegeman, 
personal communication). It seems that split readings are ruled out in the plural as well as the 
singular in this language, a situation otherwise only documented for Greek so far, but the facts 
remain to be investigated properly. 
8 In Finnish bare nouns can appear in the singular, so it is not as straightforward as it is in 
English to establish that the coordination is within the DP, rather than being between a DP with 
a determiner and a DP consisting only of a noun. However, the adverbial ta¨ssa¨ (here) cannot 
appear with a bare noun like nainen (woman) when this is used as a DP; thus it marks the right 
periphery of the DP commencing with ta¨ma¨ (this). 
A striking fact about Finnish, for which we currently have no explanation, is that it is also 
possible for the determiner to show plural rather than singular morphology; the same possibility 
appears to be true of Russian (Andrew Spencer, personal communication, and King and 
Dalrymple 2004), as if in these languages determiner agreement followed the pattern of verbal 
agreement. We will not discuss these facts in the present work. 
9 The judgments on German seem more variable than those for the other languages; it remains 
to be determined whether this reflects idiolectal, dialectal, or possibly lexical variation. Some 
possible split cases, e.g. Ottos Bruder und Schwester ‘Otto’s brother and sister’ have been 
confirmed by speakers from different areas. 
Hungarian is also a language in which split readings are available only in the plural. We do 
not discuss Hungarian in detail here, however, as the overall pattern of number agreement in 
the noun phrase is different from the other languages under consideration, and merits more 
detailed analysis than we can provide here. 

readings, when forced, are strongly ungrammatical even when gender 
agreement is controlled for. 
(21)a. *Un uomo e bambino mangiano. Italian 
a man and child are eating 
b. *Questo uomo e ragazzo sono buoni amici. 
this man and boy are good friends 
c. *Ho visto il padrone e cane insieme 
I have seen the master and dog together 
(22)a. *En face de moi discussaient un soldat et marin. French 
opposite me were arguing a soldier and sailor 
b. *Ce soldat et marin e´ taient d’accord. 
this soldier and sailor were in agreement 
c. *Mon grandpe` re et arrie` re-grand-pe` re e´ taient tous les deux 
my grandfather and great-grandfather were both 
charpentiers. 
carpenters 
(23)a. *En el bar vi a un soldado y pescador. Spanish 
in the bar I saw ACC a soldier and sailor 
b. *El soldado y pescador estaban luchando. 
the soldier and sailor were fighting 
c. *Ese soldado y pescador se han odiado siempre. 
that soldier and sailor REFL have hated always 
(24)a. *Der Stuhl und Tisch, den/die sie gerade 
the chair and table which [sing/plur] she just 
angestrichen hatte, waren noch feucht. German 
painted had were still wet 
‘The chair and table that she had just painted were still wet.’ 
b. ??Ich sah ein Fahrrad und Auto, das/die 
I saw a bicycle and car which[sing/plur] 
draussen liegengelassen worden waren. 
outside left become had. 
‘I saw a bicycle and car that had been left lying outside.’ 
c. *Die Hu¨ ndin und Katze, von der/denen ich dir 
that/those dog and cat about which[sing/plur] I you 
erza¨ hlt habe, sind draussen. 
told have are outside. 
‘The dog and cat that I was telling you about are outside.’ 

(25) *A mesa e escrivaninha estao arrumadas. 
the table and small desk are in order 
Brazilian Portuguese 
(26) *Az orvos es ugyved reszegek voltak. Hungarian 
the doctor and lawyer were drunk 
The prohibition of split readings extends to the conjunction of singular mass 
nouns (e.g. butter, bread, water, earth). (27) illustrates for Italian.10 
(27)a. *Secondo gli antichi filosofi, l’ acqua e *(la) 
according to the ancient philosophers, the water and *(the) 
terra sono elementi primordiali. 
earth are elements primordial 
b. Il frumento ed *(1’) orzo contengono glutine. 
the wheat and *(the) barley contain gluten 
c. In quelle due ricette ha usato rispettivamente il [latte 
in those two recipies he has used respectively the [milk 
e *(il) vino]. 
and *(the) wine] 
Among count nouns, one important exception to the impossibility of split 
readings in Italian is the case of singular conjuncts introduced by the singular 
quantifiers ogni ‘every’, ciascuno ‘each’, qualche ‘somesing’, qualunque freechoice 
‘anysing’. These cases range from mildly deviant to completely normal. 
10 Two types of mass noun conjunctions behave exceptionally. If the conjunction denotes the 
material mix of two substances (a ‘‘cocktail reading’’), the determiner can appear in the singular 
and verbal agreement is obligatorily singular. This is, we believe, not a genuine ‘‘split’’ reading: 
beer and lemonade behave in all respects as the name of a single substance. 
(i) La birra e limonata e` in frigo. 
the beer and lemonade is in (the) fridge 
In addition, the conjunction of certain abstract mass nouns (of the same gender) allows what 
appear to be split readings. Such conjunctions are extremely common in our English data; (ii) 
gives some examples from the BNC; (iii) are equivalent Italian examples. 
(ii)a. their fitness and concentration 
b. much determination and hard work 
c. the fanaticism and sheer ferocity of tabloid prejudice 
d. this optimism, cheerfulness, and absolute lack of self-pity 
(iii)a. La corruzione e lentezza del tribunale era/erano nota/e a tutti. 
the corruption and slowness of the court was/were known[sg/pl] to everyone 
b. La sua estrema [pazienza e determinazione] ci ha/?hanno sorpreso. 
the his extreme [patience and determination] us has/have surprised. 
‘His extreme [patience and determination] has/have surprised us.’ 
Similar examples in French do not appear to be acceptable. It might be that the second set of 
cases could be reduced to the first one, but there is no room to discuss this interesting possibility 
in the paper. 

(28)a. ?{Ciascun / qualsiasi / qualche} cucchiaio e coltello va 
{each / any / some} spoon and knife must be 
lucidato individualmente. 
polished individually 
b. Ho invitato ogni uomo, donna e bambino ad evacuare 
I invited every man, woman and child to abandon 
l’ area. 
the area 
c. Parlero` con qualsiasi genitore e insegnante interessato 
I will speak with any parent and teacher interested 
ad ascoltarmi. 
to listen to me 
Analogous judgments hold for French and Spanish (Corine Astesano, 
Leonor Moral, personal communication). 
Similarly, conjunctions under nessuno ‘no’ and alcuno negative polarity 
‘anyplur’ in Italian are only mildly deviant, though they tend to be interpreted 
as quantifications over pairs of objects.11 
(29)a. ?Nessun cucchiaio e coltello va pulito con l’ 
no spoon and knife must be cleaned with 
aceto. 
vinegar 
b. Non ho comprato nessuna/alcuna borsa e sciarpa per 
(I) not have bought any/any bag and scarf for 
questo vestito. 
this dress. 
The residual marginality seems to be linked to uncertainty in verbal 
agreement; plural verbal agreement is indeed a possibility with the (a) cases, 
but more marginal. Object position, where no agreement has to be overtly 
realized, improves all cases. 
3.2. Conjunction of Plurals 
While in singular DP-internal conjunction it is usually simple to identify two 
distinct readings, one joint, the other split, in the plural the situation is more 
complex. Verbal agreement can no longer be used to disambiguate; on the 
other hand, numerals can now help to clarify the total number of individuals 
referred to. In addition, of course, it continues to be possible to pick NPs 
denoting incompatible properties. 
11 Italian is a negative concord language: hence in negative polarity environments, nessuno and 
alcuno are synonymous. 

3.2.1. Simple Plural Definites 
Consider first of all cases of simple plural definites: 
(30)a. [His friends and enemies] agreed only on one point. 
b. He talked to [John’s sons and nephews]. 
c [Those arrogant American generals and Yugoslavian diplomats] 
will surely find the peace talks exceedingly irritating. 
d. [The diamonds and rubies you saw at the exhibit] are worth a 
king’s ransom. 
(31)a. [His friends and colleagues] all came to the party. 
b. [The writers, journalists and film critics who crowded the party] 
steered the conversation into a dead end. 
c. Robert and Bill, [my countrymen and fellow revolutionaries], 
have been arrested. 
In (30), pragmatics and the use of incompatible properties yield the direct 
equivalent of a fully split reading for the bracketed DPs: pretheoretically, all 
the bracketed DPs in (30) refer to a plurality of individuals, each of whom 
has one and only one of the properties in the conjunction.Moreover, each of 
the properties must be represented in the plurality, that is to say, [John’s 
sons and nephews] cannot refer to a group made up entirely of John’s sons, 
or entirely of John’s nephews. The necessity for all the properties to be 
represented distinguishes these cases from simple cases of disjunction. Thus 
for example it is clear that the requirement stated in (32) would be satisfied 
by 5 passes without any distinctions.12 
(32) You need [5 passes or distinctions] to be allowed to take the 
class. 
The minimally different 5 passes and distinctions does not cover such a case; 
this will be further discussed in sections 5.3 and 5.4. 
In (31), on the other hand, the use of compatible properties makes possible 
fully mixed readings, provided all the properties are represented. For 
instance, the friends and colleagues could refer to a group of two friends who 
are not colleagues, three colleagues who are not friends, and five who have 
both properties. What intuitions show here is that ‘‘fully joint’’ and ‘‘fully 
12 In many cases of disjunction there is a strong preference for a reading where the disjunction 
has wide scope, as pointed out by an anonymous referee with respect to (i). 
(i) He talked to [John’s sons or nephews] yesterday. 
We do not know why it should be so hard to get the reading where disjunction is interpreted 
with low scope; the example in (32) shows that it is possible, however. 

split’’ readings are just two extremes of a range of possible denotations. This 
fact places an interesting constraint on the type of account we need to look 
for: any theory which posits a strong binary distinction between fully split 
and fully joint readings (e.g. attributing them to separate syntactic structures) 
would simply be inadequate to deal with simple cases like (31).13 
In the previous section we saw that in a number of languages, including 
Italian, French, German, Spanish, Brazilian Portuguese, and Hungarian, 
singular DP-internal conjunction can receive only the joint interpretation; 
the split interpretation is unavailable, as illustrated in (21)–(26). In the 
plural, however, all but one of the languages we have investigated fully allow 
split readings in addition to the joint one.14 
(33) Gli amici e nemici di Gianni si trovavano 
the friends and enemies of Gianni were in 
d’accordo su un solo punto. Italian 
agreement on a single point 
‘Gianni’s friends and enemies were in agreement on a single point.’ 
(34) Les neveux et petit-neveux de Jean sont venus aux 
the nephews and great-nephews of Jean are come to the 
fune´ railles. French 
funeral 
‘Jean’s nephews and great-nephews came to the funeral.’ 
(35) Los hermanos y hermanas de Juan se dividieron 
the nephews and nieces of Juan REFL divided 
la herencia. Spanish 
the inheritance 
‘Juan’s nephews and nieces split the inheritance.’ 
(36) Die Bu¨ cherborde und Fenster, die sie gerade 
the bookcases and windows which she just 
14 The split interpretation is reminiscent of a (semi)partitive structure with tra (among/ 
between) found in Italian: 
(i) Venti tra generali e diplomatici discutevano animatamente. 
twenty among generals and diplomats discussed animatedly 
‘Twenty of the generals and diplomats were having an animated discussion.’ 
However, the split constructions in this section cannot in general be considered elliptical 
versions of the tra construction, since tra versions of definite examples, such as (38 a) in section 
3.2.2. below, are clearly ill-formed. 
(ii) *I (numerosi/vari) tra generali e soldati … 
the numerous/various) among generals and soldiers 
13 As discussed in section 6.1, this may be a problem for the analysis in King and Dalrymple 
(2004). 

angestrichen hatte, waren noch feucht. German 
painted had were still wet. 
‘The bookcases and windows that she had just painted were 
still wet’ 
As mentioned in section 2.2, Greek provides a single counterexample to this 
generalization: split readings are ruled out also for plural definites like (37 a), 
although they are available for plural indefinites like (37 b) (King and 
Dalrymple 2004). 
(37)a. *oi ga´ tes kai ko´ ttes 
the-PL cats and chickens 
b. merike´s ga´ tes kai ko´ ttes 
several-PLUR cats and chickens 
3.2.2. Plurals with Numerals 
In all the languages we have tested, plural split readings can also be introduced 
by cardinal numerals and vague adjectival numerals (many, several, 
numerous, few, a few, various), with and without a definite determiner. Split 
readings with vague determiners are particularly natural.15 The examples in 
(38) are from Italian, those in (39) from French:16 
16 One exception to the possibility of plural split readings in languages which do not allow 
singular split readings is the significantly reduced acceptability of conjunctions of nouns with 
modifiers or complements, introduced only by an article. Thus, (ia,b) contrast with (38): 
(i)a. ??I [generali americani e diplomatici iugoslavi] alla conferenza… 
the [generals American and diplomats Yugoslavian]at the conference… 
b. ??Gli [amici di Carlo e parenti di Francesca]… 
the [friends of Carlo and relatives of Francesca]… 
This effect is likely to be due to the clitic nature of the Italian definite determiner, which cannot 
cliticize to conjunctions of ‘‘larger’’ nominal categories. Italian clitic pronouns show a parallel 
effect: they can combine with conjunctions of verbal heads with similar meaning, but not when 
the verbs are modified by adverbials (which force the conjunction to be between full VPs, or 
higher). 
(ii)a. Io lo leggo e rileggo 
I itcl read and re-read 
‘I read and reread it.’ 
b. *Io lo leggo subito e rileggo dopo un ora 
I itcl read immediately and re-read after an hour 
‘I [read immediately and re-read after an hour] it.’ 
(Continued on next page) 
15 The salient reading of these examples is one in which the vague numeral is applying 
‘‘collectively’’ to the group formed by e.g. American generals and Yugoslavian diplomats, not a 
conjunction between [the numerous American generals] and the bare plural [Yugoslavian soldiers]. 
Note that this second (irrelevant) parse is restricted in Italian and completely unavailable 
in French, given well-known constraints on the distribution of bare plurals in these languages. 

(38)a. I {numerosi / pochi / venti} generali americani e 
the {numerous / few / 20} generals American and 
diplomatici yugoslavi alla conferenza concordavano 
diplomats Yugoslavian at the conference agreed 
su un solo punto. 
on a single point 
‘The numerous/few/20 American generals and Yugoslavian 
diplomats at the conference agreed on a single point.’ 
b. {Molti / Vari / Parecchi} amici di Carlo e 
{many / various / several} friends of Carlo and 
parenti di Francesca si 
relatives of Francesca REFL 
incontrarono per la prima volta al 
met for the first time at the 
matrimonio. 
wedding 
‘Many/various/several friends of Carlo and relatives of 
Francesca met for the first time at the wedding.’ 
(39)a. {Les / Ces} nombreux marins americains et soldats 
{the / these} numerous sailors American and soldiers 
britanniques se battaient. 
British REFL fought 
‘The/these numerous American sailors and British soldiers were 
fighting.’ 
b. Plusieurs neveux de Jean et cousins de sa femme 
several nephews of Jean and cousins of his wife 
sont arrive´ s. 
are arrived 
(Footnote 16 continued) 
The grammaticality of (40 a) and (40 b) suggests that this process can apply recursively to 
unmodified heads, allowing the numeral to combine with the noun and then the result to 
combine with the article. Examples with numerals like these are again significantly degraded if 
the nominals are larger than a simple head: 
(iii) ??i due colleghi di Carlo e due amici di Maria 
the two colleagues of Carlo and two friends of Maria 
However, we leave the precise working-out of this possibility aside. 

World knowledge disfavours a joint reading for these examples, but in other 
cases, e.g. those involving people with multiple roles like (Quei) venti 
linguisti e filosofi ((those) twenty linguists and philosophers), the joint 
reading is clearly available, exactly as in English. However, this reading is 
lost, in both English and Italian, if the numeral is repeated in each conjunct. 
For instance, in (40), only the split reading (distinct objects or people) 
survives. 
(40)a. I tre cavatappi e tre apribottiglie erano gia` 
the three corkscrews and three bottle-openers were already 
sul tavolo. total: 6 
on the table 
b. I due amici e due colleghi apparvero sulla 
the two friends and two colleagues appeared on my 
soglia. total: 4 
doorstep 
c. Quei venti linguisti e venti filosofi non 
those 20 linguists and 20 philosophers will 
raggiungeranno mai un accordo total: 40 
never reach an agreement. 
4. DP STRUCTURE AND PLURALITY 
We have now set out the basic data. In the rest of the paper we will argue 
that the distribution of split and joint readings for DP-internal coordination 
follows from the interaction of minimally different realizations of the 
singular/plural distinction in the noun phrase with a language-invariant 
interpretation for conjunction. In this section we set out a detailed proposal 
for the realization of number and the internal structure of noun phrases. 
Our interpretation for conjunction will be given in section 5. 
4.1. Functional Projections and Their Semantics 
The structure we will use to account for the data is an extended DP with 
multiple projections between D and the N proper, based on Abney (1987), 
Hudson (1989), Cinque (1994), Longobardi (1994), Ritter (1991), Siloni 
(1994), Zamparelli (1995, 1998), and others: 
(41)a. [DP Det [NumP Num [PlP Pl [NP (Modifiers) Noun (Modifiers) 
(Compl)]]]] 
b. [DP Those [NumP few [PlP Pl [NP linguistic papers]]]] 
Following Zamparelli (1995) and others, we assume that the NP layer hosts 
the noun plus attributive adjectives (possibly within additional projections, 

which we disregard), NumP hosts cardinal numerals (and possibly other 
‘‘weak’’ determiners, see the discussion on the indefinite article a(n) below). 
At spell-out, DP can host ‘‘strong’’ determiners (definite articles, 
demonstratives, universal quantifiers, and most), plus some and no, though 
as we shall see, in the account that we are going to propose not all of these 
elements will be generated (merged) in this layer. We will leave open whether 
the DP layer also hosts cardinals in their specific (‘‘strong,’’ in Milsark’s 
sense) reading. Finally, we name PlP a projection linked to the generation of 
plural denotations. We will discuss the crucial role of Pl in sections 4.2 and 
4.3.17 
Although (41) is not meant to be a complete structure for the noun 
phrase, we will work under the hypothesis that the layers in (41) constitute 
the minimal structure necessary to obtain a quantificationally correct 
denotation for noun phrases.18 
Locating cardinals in NumP means that a noun phrase introduced by a 
cardinal numeral will be quite different from a ‘‘strong’’ DP such as those 
children (42 a). If argumental noun phrases are full DPs (a point to which we 
will return), two children will have the structure in (42 b) as an argument, 
while in predicative position it will be a bare NumP, as shown in (42 c) 
(Zamparelli 1995). 
(42)a. [DP those [NumP . . . [NP children]]] 
b. [DP De [NumP two . . . [NP children]]] 
c. [NumP two . . . [NP children]] 
Observe that, for arguments, (42 b) follows automatically from the availability 
of a post-determiner position for numerals (as in the two children) 
which is ‘‘adjectival’’ in nature (Carden 1976, Giusti 1991, Kadmon 1987), 
and the possibility of determinerless plurals introduced by an adjective (a 
point made in Hoeksema 1983 and Verkuyl 1981). 
17 In what follows, we will be deliberately vague about the specifier or head position of some 
of these elements, assuming that the semantic variation which may be derived from this syntactic 
difference (if any) will be orthogonal to our topic. Across constructions, it is not hard to 
find operators with comparable meaning but a different spec/head status. Examples are whether 
vs. if (Kayne 1991); possessor phrases (John’s; see Abney 1987, sect. 2.1 and 4.1) vs. possessive 
pronouns; ‘‘complex determiners’’ such as more than 3 but less than 5 vs. 4 (Keenan and Stavi 
1986). See Zamparelli (1995, sect. 6.4) and Heycock and Zamparelli (2003) for discussion. 
The structure in (41) corresponds to the one in Zamparelli (1995, 1998), mapping his SDP 
(‘Strong DP’) onto our DP, PDP (‘Predicative DP’) onto NumP, and KIP (‘Kind Phrase’) onto 
PlP (for some of its functions). We adopt the present terminology because it is more in line with 
the labels used elsewhere in the literature. 
18 For instance, (41) does not have room for all, which must be external to DP (given all those 
forty-five boys), possibly realized as an adjunct; see Sportiche (1988). 

We will adopt a ‘‘checking’’ theory of features along the lines of 
Chomsky (1995, 2000), augmented with a mechanism of feature underspecification 
similar to the one described in Chomsky (2001) (but also common 
to unification grammars; see Shieber 1985). Specifically, we assume that 
lexical heads come with features which may have a value but may also be 
unvalued (underspecified, in the terminology of unification grammars). The 
presence of an unvalued feature drives the operation of agree: a head with 
an unvalued feature establishes a local agreement relation with another head 
which has the same feature and a value for it. As a result of this process, the 
unvalued feature receives a value. Features without a value crash at spellout. 
‘‘Agree’’ may involve visible movement of a constituent, or a mechanism 
of feature percolation which only moves the formal features of some 
element. In one important departure from the system set out in Chomsky 
(2001) we do not assume that features that receive a value in the course of 
the derivation are deleted before the level of interpretation is reached; on the 
contrary, we believe that the feature values acquired by a head may have an 
important role in determining the specific semantic function of that head. 
This will be exemplified in section 4.4. As an abbreviatory convention, we 
will simply write, e.g., [GENDER] for [GENDER=unvalued]. 
In this paper we will be distinguishing between a semantic and a syntactic 
feature for number. The semantic feature we will call LATT (for ‘‘lattice’’). It 
has two possible values: )LATT (semantically singular) or þLATT (semantically 
plural, i.e. ‘‘having a join semilattice structure’’ – see below). The 
semantic feature LATT is distinguished from the /-feature for syntactic 
number, indicated as þPLUR (syntactically plural) and )PLUR (syntactically 
singular). ±PLUR belongs to the more general group of agreement features. 
The motivation for this choice of features will be the topic of section 4.3. 
4.2. The Syntax/Semantics Interface of Nominals 
Turning to the semantics, we assume a basic domain At of atomic objects 
(entities of type e, like the reader of this paper, the Earth, Africa, but also 
portions of matter, like the water that fills my sink – see Link 1983, and 
below). For the sake of simplicity we will disregard intensions unless where 
noted and use ½X to refer to the extension assigned to the syntactic object X 
by the interpretation function f in a model M. 
Consider first countable expressions: what should be the denotation of 
singulars and plurals of such nominals? Following Link (1983, 1987), 
Landman (1989), Schwarzschild (1996), and many others, we assume that 
pluralization can be modeled as an operation that turns the denotation of a 
count noun, a set of singular individuals, into a set composed of all the ways 

in which these individuals can be grouped together into pluralities – 
rendered here as sets of atomic individuals (as in Landman 1989 and 
Schwarzschild 1996). To keep the ontology uniformly flat, singular individuals 
will also be mapped onto sets, i.e. the singleton sets containing the 
relevant atomic individuals (as e.g. in Scha 1981). This choice will give, for 
instance: 
(43)a. ½John = {john} 
b. ½The boys = {john, bill, henry} 
The operation that forms plural individuals can thus simply be set union ([), 
and the relation between an individual and a plurality that contains it, 
subset (). 
As many authors have pointed out, mass nouns have similarities with 
count plurals, in particular, the properties of cumulative reference (Quine 
1960) and distributed reference (Cheng 1973). These similarities will be relevant 
for their effects at the syntax/semantics interface and should be rendered 
by any proper semantics. One way to do so is to capitalize on the 
notion of part. The main idea is that pluralities can be formed not only by 
gathering singular objects into larger and larger collections, but also by 
taking an object and breaking it down into its smaller and smaller constituent 
parts. Two operators are needed: material part19 (£m, basically Link’s 
1983 material part operator, modified here to apply to singletons), which 
establishes a partial order over the domain of atom-containing singletons, 
and material fusion (written +), which combines two atom-containing singletons 
into a new one. With {a} and {b} atom-containing singletons, {a+b} 
is an atom-containing singleton, while {a, b} is the plural entity formed by 
{a} and {b}. It holds that:20 
(44)a. X £m Y ” X+Y = Y with X, Y, singular individuals 
(e.g. {a}, {b}); undefined otherwise; 
b. XY ” X[Y = Y with X, Y sets 
We can now define two operators which give rise to pluralities. If P is the 
denotation of a predicate over singulars (a property of type  e,t>,t>), the 
notation *P (‘‘star P’’) stands for the set product of the elements in P, minus 
the empty set (the closure under union). 
19 The attribute ‘‘material’’ should not be taken too literally here, since, as in Link, the + and 
£m operators must also apply to abstract nouns such as time, volume, gravity, etc. 
20 We use x, y, z, k, p, q, r as variables, other letters as constants; P, Q, R for sets of sets and 
other uppercase letters for elements in the set of singular or plural individuals. 

(45) *Pe;t>t> ¼ the smallest X such that P  X and 
8Y; Z 2 X ½Y [ Z 2 X 
If P is a singleton property of a singular individual (e.g. {{a}}), the notation 
‚P (‘‘div P’’) stands for the set of parts of that singular individual. 
(46) Pe;t>t> ¼ the smallest X such that 8Y<e;t>½Y m iP ! Y 2 X 
These operators impose an algebraic structure over the domain D of discourse 
(see Link 1983, section II; Keenan and Faltz 1985). Let E be a 
complete Boolean algebra. Now *P is a complete join subsemilattice of E, 
generated by the singular individuals in ½P, minus the empty set (as in 
Landman 1989). [ is the join operation and  the ordering relation for E. 
The set of singular individuals D can similarly be seen as a join semilattice, 
where material fusion is the join operation and £m the ordering relation. 
Unlike E, this semilattice doesn’t necessarily have minimal elements (i.e. 
elements which cannot be further subdivided by £m). This captures the idea 
of homogeneous reference, i.e. the intuition that masses like space or time 
(and in a naive physics sense, nouns like water or food) can be subdivided 
into smaller and smaller parts, ad infinitum. 
Homogeneous reference is perhaps too strong a property for mass nouns 
like furniture, hair, spaghetti, which – as argued by Chierchia (1998 a) and 
others – do seem to have minimal elements (the individual piece of furniture, 
stand of hair, string of pasta, but not material parts thereof). To address this 
problem, we will make use of a revised version of (46), in (47), which 
includes a constraint on what can be a ‘proper part’. 
(47) Pe;t>t>(revised) = the smallest X such that 8Y<e;t>½Y m iP^ 
CðYÞ ! Y 2 X where C is some (salient) 
property true of P 
For instance, if P = furniture, C could be a property like that of having 
certain functions in domestic routine. A splinter of wood off the table, in this 
case, would not count as furniture.21 
Formally, a model for the interpretation of noun phrases will consist of a 
sextuple <At, f, , [, £m,þ>, where At is the set of atomic objects, f the 
interpretation function,  and £m the individual and material subpart 
relations, and [ and + the join operations on count and mass denotations, 
respectively. 
21 Evidently, the choice ofCis a crucial and sensitive issue, but will have to remain unaddressed in 
this paper. See Bunt (1981, 1985), Pelletier and Schubert (1989), Gillon (1992), Chierchia(1998 a) 
for discussion. 

The syntax/semantics interface we envision in this work is one where each 
functional head denotes a function over the denotation of its syntactic 
complement; the function varies depending on the (overt or covert) content 
of the head. We will assume that functional layers whose heads do not 
perform any semantic or syntactic function are simply missing: the denotation 
of their complement is passed up the tree unaltered.22 Within this 
model, one central aspect of the proposal is that semantic pluralization 
(meaning by this the creation of a lattice structure, via * or ‚) is not performed 
at N (say, with the application of plural morphology to the noun 
root), but is left to the abstract functional head Pl, which takes the NP as its 
complement. Pl can perform two distinct semantic operations, depending on 
the value of its feature PLUR at LF: Pl[+PLUR] denotes star (*), the pluralizer 
for count nouns, Pl[)PLUR] denotes div (‚), the pluralizer for mass nouns. The 
idea of introducing a structural gap between denotation (the NP) and pluralization 
(PlP and NumP) will be defended in section 4.3. In this section, we 
will simply show how the system functions, combining the semantics of the 
noun with the correct operator at Pl. 
We take the denotation of all nouns, singular or plural, to be a set of 
singular elements (a singular  e,t>,t>-type property). Mass nouns (or 
mass uses of nouns) differ from count ones in that they denote a singleton 
property at each situation where their denotation is nonempty: this is the 
property of being the maximal amount of stuff of the relevant kind in that 
situation (cf. Gillon 1992 for a similar stand). ‘‘Situations’’ (roughly in the 
sense of Kratzer 1989) are taken here to be contextually dependent subparts 
of worlds. Context can select a situation in which water ends up referring to, 
for instance, the water in this sink, but in the absence of restrictive contexts 
situations coincide with worlds, and out of the blue water denotes the sum of 
all existing water at the world/index of evaluation.23 
The relation between nouns and their mass/count status is notoriously 
complex. Here, we will assume that nouns may have a default count or mass 
status (in a given language), but that this status may be changed by means of 
operators which perform ‘massification’ (e.g. from an object to the material 
constituting it) or ‘discretization’ (e.g. from a mass to the corresponding 
taxonomic subkind; see Pelletier and Schubert 1989). These shifts can in 
22 1t may of course be empirically impossible to distinguish between FPs that are missing and 
FPs that are present but completely inactive. If the latter route turns out to be preferable on 
theoretical grounds, we will assume that semantically empty heads denote the identity function 
as a default. 
23 Notice that this is very close to the ‘intensional property’ view of kinds (functions from 
worlds/indexes to the set of instantiations of that kind at that world/index discussed in Krifka 
et al. (1995), etc. We remain neutral on the question whether mass nouns are a subkind of kinds. 

principle apply to any noun, subject to world knowledge and other constraints. 
The type of pluralization a noun undergoes depends on its number, hence 
on its PLUR feature, according to the schema: 
(48)a. ½[PlP Pl[+PLUR]NP[+PLUR]] = *½NP vacuous if ½NP is a singleton property 
b. ½[PlP Pl[)PLUR] NP[)PLUR]] = ‚½NP iff NP denotes a 
singleton-containing property at every situation where it is 
not ;; undefined otherwise.24 
Recall that PLUR is a feature of N, one which normally corresponds to its 
morphosyntactic number. Pl has no morphology and no intrinsic PLUR 
value, so it must acquire a value from N via Agree. Let’s assume that Pl is 
merged with an unvalued feature PLUR. After Agree, Pl has obtained from N 
a PLUR value, which determines the semantic pluralizer to apply: * for 
morphologically plural nouns, ‚ for morphologically singular ones. 
But information must also travel in the other direction: N needs to 
‘‘know’’ whether pluralization will apply higher in the structure. Suppose 
that N has the feature [)PLUR], but not a mass denotation (a singular 
property at every situation). In this case, if pluralization takes place at Pl, 
the output of the ‚-operator will be undefined (see (48 b)) unless one of the 
‘massification’ operators applies at N to produce a semantics appropriate 
for ‚. Vice-versa, if N is [+PLUR] and pluralization does not apply at Pl we 
have the morphology of plurality without its semantic effects. The undesirability 
of this situation can be stated as a principle: 
(49) No vacuous plurality: Morphological pluralization is a marked 
choice, and as such it cannot be used vacuously. 
In this case, the rescuing operation might involve shiftingNto a kind meaning 
(perhaps raising it to D; Longobardi 1994), but in this paper we remain 
agnostic on the precise nature of this operation. What matters is that there are 
cases where the information about whether semantic pluralization will be 
applied at PlP can force the application of certain operators at the NP level. 
Again, this can be obtained via the Agree mechanism, provided we take N to 
have an unvalued LATT feature and Pl a valued one. A positive value for LATT 
on the Pl head signals that a lattice structure will be formed via * or ‚; a 
negative one, that Pl is semantically inactive (in this case, the denotation ofNP 
24 The use of an intensional singleton restriction is crucial. Without it, we would predict that if 
there was a single contextually salient rabbit at this world, This is rabbit should be able to mean 
‘‘This is a part of the (contextually unique) rabbit’’, which it doesn’t mean. 

is directly fed to the next level up, NumP).The two cases where the values of 
PLUR and LATT force some semantic shift are therefore as follows: 
(50)a. Pl[+LATT] N[+PLUR]], ½N not a mass-type  Massification 
b. Pl[)LATT] N[+PLUR]  Kind-formation 
Above Pl, NumP behaves as a filter. It regulates the cardinality of the 
PlP/NP denotation, eliminating from it any plurality with the wrong number 
of atoms, much as in Hoeksema (1983:65) and Verkuyl (1981). |X| 
should be read as ‘‘the cardinality of X’’. 
(51) ½[NumP n PlP] = {X : X . ½PlP and |X| = n} 
Note that * is a pluralization operator that preserves singletons in its output, 
as argued for by Schwarzschild (1996), Lasersohn (1995), but contra 
Chierchia (1998 a). This choice makes at least three correct predictions. 
First, complex determiners like one or more, or 1.0 (one point zero), are 
interpreted correctly: 
(52)a. ½[NumP one or more [PlP boys]] = ½[PlP boys] b. American households have, on average 1.0 dogs. (cf. Krifka 2003) 
Second, as noted by many authors, examples like (53) seems to be falsified 
by a single case:25 
(53)a. There have never been relatives of mine in the House of Lords. 
b. I have never come across linguists who have met Jakobson. 
Third, although the English determiner no can select for singular as well as 
plural nouns, the meaning in the two cases doesn’t seem to be 
truth-conditionally different, as pointed out by Schwarzschild (1996) and 
others; (54) has the same truth conditions as No boy arrived: it is false in a 
situation in which a single boy has arrived. 
(54) No boys arrived. 
At the next level up, we have DPs – the canonical arguments. Semantically, 
this means that DPs denote singular or plural individuals (type<e,t> 
in this system) or Generalized Quantifiers (type < e,t>t>t>). We adopt 
the following as a general semantic schema for the D head: D minimally 
denotes a free variable whose value is chosen from the set denoted by the 
NumP. 
(55) ½ [DP D NumP ]  = X : X . ½NumP, NumP a property 
25 Since relatives of mine and linguists who have met Jakobson cannot denote kinds, the possibility 
of deriving a single individual reading from a kind denotation, as in Chierchia (1998 b), is 
precluded. 

This skeleton definition can be further specified by the lexical content of D; 
in particular, overt quantifiers in this position bind the D variable and can 
introduce additional restrictions on it. 
A particularly interesting case is that of definites. Following Sharvy 
(1980), we assume that the definite determiner the denotes Max, which picks 
the supremum of the denotation of its complement: 
(56) Max(P) = iY : Y . P and "Z: Z .P, ZY 
(57) ½[DP the NumP ]  = Max(½NumP) NumP a property 
If the argument of the definite is a set of singletons (as will be the case for a 
singular noun), Max will be defined only in case this set actually contains a 
single element. This captures the fact that the with a singular noun presupposes 
(contextual) uniqueness, but the plus a plural noun picks the largest 
plurality which can be built from the denotation of the noun (Sharvy 1980; 
Chierchia l998 a) and so presupposes maximality.26 The proposal that mass 
nouns are intensionally singular properties automatically derives the fact that 
definites are always acceptable with these nouns. Furthermore, we can 
assume that in this water, the noun water has not been pluralized by ‚. More 
generally, singular definites and demonstratives never require or induce 
semantic pluralization (in our terms, they are never [þLATT]). Since 
Max(*P)=Max(P) when P is a singular property, this avoids a vacuous 
pluralization, much in the spirit of (49). 
4.3. Motivations for Two Heads and Two Features 
In the DP structure introduced above two features (LATT and PLUR) and 
three syntactic projections (NP, NumP, and PlP) are involved in the 
semantic realization of plurality. It might seem that a more conservative 
approach should be able to obtain the same result assigning the semantics of 
plurality to N directly, or at most, using a single extra syntactic projection 
(say, NumP, home of cardinal numbers) and a single ‘Number’ feature. The 
goal of this section is to show the advantages of the more complex system 
described above. 
Empirical evidence for the idea that semantic plurality comes into play at 
a structural position higher than NP comes mainly from a constraint on the 
position of cardinal modifiers: crosslinguistically, numerical modifiers must 
appear in a very external position in the DP. If plural nouns denoted pluralities 
to start with, it would be a mystery why these modifiers, in many 
cases clearly adjectival in nature, never appear in a position below PlP, 
26 We leave open here whether the also provides an existential quantifier, or just a variable to be 
bound at sentence level. 

unlike all other adjectives. The distribution of numerals could of course be 
stipulated at a syntactic level, but this would not capture the fact that 
cardinal expressions are bad even when embedded in restrictive relative 
clauses. Contrast (58 a) with (58 b). 
(58)a. ?The people who lifted the piano came to twelve. 
b. *I need people who come to twelve to lift the piano. 
In English, the point is obscured by the fact that cardinal numerals are 
marginal in predicative position, but Italian, where numeric predicates are 
perfect, shows the same pattern. 
(59)a. I problemi erano {quattro / molti / troppi}. 
the problems were {4 / many / too many} 
b. ??Devo risolvere problemi *(che siano) {quattro / molti / troppi}. 
I must solve problems*(that are) {4 / many / too many} 
c. *Ho comprato libri che hai letto (che erano) quattro. 
I have bought books that you have read (that were) 4 
Example (59 b) cannot mean: I must solve n problems, for some value of n, 
and in (59 c) che erano quattro is only interpretable as a parenthetic nonrestrictive 
relative.27 This fact casts serious doubts on an approach like 
that of Krifka (2003), where numerals are lexical arguments of count 
nouns: it would be very unusual for an argument to be obligatorily realized 
more externally than any non-argumental modifier (e.g. the subjectoriented 
lucky in {three lucky/*lucky three} numbers). Our approach to the 
problem is instead that modifiers that crucially make reference to a plurality 
can attach only above the point at which a plurality has been formed 
by the */‚ operators, and that a mechanism of feature sharing between N 
and the point at which plurality is formed makes the system internally 
consistent. 
The same argument applies to mass nouns, which show restrictions on 
the position of amount modifiers entirely parallel to those seen for plurals 
(consider *dirty much water, or in Italian *l’ acqua molta ‘the water much’). 
So the very same reasoning leads to the conclusion that they, too, are 
semantically pluralized by a PlP projection above NP, and do not come 
from the lexicon already denoting mereologies (Leonard and Goodman 
1940) or lattices (Link 1983). 
27 Notice that Cerco colleghi che siano in quattro ‘I am looking for colleagues who are in a 
group of 4’ is perfect; but the property of belonging in a group is quite different from the 
property of having a certain cardinality. The less than total ungrammaticality of (59 b) with a 
relative is probably due to this back-up interpretational strategy. 

Additional evidence pointing to this conclusion comes from measure 
phrases. Schwarzschild (2002) observes that measure phrases (MPs) can 
appear as pseudopartitives with mass nouns (MP of N, as in (60 a)) only 
when they are built on a scalar property which covaries with the part-whole 
relation of the object they measure. 
(60)a. [2 liters] of oil 
b. *[90 degree(s)] of oil 
Subparts of 2 liters of oil must be less than 2 liters, while subparts of oil 
whose temperature is 90 degrees may well still be 90 degrees, hence the 
contrast in (60). Interestingly, the opposite is true when measure phrases 
appear in nominal compounds: 
(61)a. *[2 liter] oil (poured through the hole) 
b. [90 degree] oil (poured through the hole) 
Here, measure phrases which track the part-whole relation are ill-formed, 
while measure phrases which do not, such as 90 degree(s), make fine 
compounds. The question is why (61 a) is bad. The use of the ‚-operator 
provides an explanatory answer: MPs in nominal compounds appear in a 
position much closer to N than MPs in pseudopartitives (witness 2 liters of 
dark 90-degree oil), a position below the layer in which the part-whole 
structure is generated by ‚. Therefore, only MPs which do not rely on the 
existence of a part-whole structure are well-formed at this level. 
(62) [DP . . . [PlP Pl[)PLUR] [NP {90 degree / *2 liter(s)} oil]]] 
These facts strongly suggests that mass nouns, just like plurals, acquire their 
final denotation only at some point in the derivation, but leave open the 
possibility that a single head, say NumP, could denote the composition of 
the two semantic operations – the creation of a plurality and its filtering by a 
cardinal number. But coexistence in a single head strongly predicts that the 
two operations should be both active or both inactive; in particular, it 
should be impossible to form a plurality without filtering it. We will show 
that if this possibility is assumed to exist we obtain a natural account of the 
difference between English and Romance languages: the existence of two 
distinct projections, though not logically necessary, has more explanatory 
power. 
Turning to the role of the features encoding plurality: in the system we 
have proposed LATT has an exclusively semantic role, while PLUR makes sure 
that syntactic number is consistent across all DP constituents, nouns, 
determiners, and adjectives (in languages where adjectives agree in number), 
so as to exclude: 

(63)a. *that boys 
b. *those boy 
One could argue, as Hoeksema (1983) does for the agreement between 
nouns and verbs, that this should be a semantic, not a syntactic matter. 
Semantics alone can in fact exclude many ill-formed combinations, such as 
*three boy, under the minimal hypothesis that singular nouns do not contain 
pluralities, but cannot go all the way (see Wechsler and Zlatic´ 2000; King 
and Dalrymple 2004 for the same conclusion). 
First, the ungrammaticality of *one boys (contrasted with one or more 
boys in (52 a)) could not be accounted for semantically, since singularities are 
present in a plural nominal. Similarly, the contrast in English between one 
man and woman and *two man and woman (which should both mean ‘‘a 
couple’’) is hard to explain without a syntactic clash between two and the 
two singular terms. 
Second, even where a syntactically singular noun allows plural verb 
agreement (as with ‘‘collective nouns’’ in British English), the determiner 
always follows the syntactic number. 
(64) {This /*These} committee are to meet tomorrow. 
Languages like Hungarian and Latin provide clear evidence of a split 
between syntactic and semantic features. In Hungarian, nouns remain 
morphologically singular when combined with numerals (65 a), while plural 
morphology is needed when the numeral is absent (65 b): 
(65)a. O¨
t hajo´t la´ ttam. 
5 shipsing I saw 
b. Hajo´ kat la´ ttam. 
shipsplur I saw 
Conversely, Latin proper names such as Athenae, Syracusae, Pisae are 
syntactically plural objects with a singular semantics. At first, these cases 
seem to fly in the face of the non-vacuous pluralization principle in (49). 
Actually, they merely show that the principle doesn’t apply when the plural 
suffix is stored as an idiosyncratic part of a world lexical entry and is not 
added by the normal, productive morphological rule. The same holds for 
plural mass nouns like brains or funds, which we can assume to have a 
)PLUR value despite the plural suffix (hence he hasn’t got much brains/funds). 
Capturing semantic phenomena by positing new features is methodologically 
sound only if there are syntactic operations which make use of that 
feature. In this respect, as Pelletier and Schubert (1989) observe, there is very 
little purpose for a syntactic feature ±COUNT/±MASS. On the other hand, 

mass noun phrases are also similar to plurals in their distribution. For 
instance, in Italian and Spanish both bare plural count and bare singular 
mass nominals are restricted, roughly, to lexically governed positions, while 
singular count nominals are impossible in any argumental position 
(Contreras 1986; Longobardi 1994). Evidently, count plural and singular 
mass nominals must share a common value for some syntactic feature that 
plays a role in this distribution, which cannot be easily reduced to semantics. 
This value cannot be PLUR (a singular count noun is )PLUR just like a 
singular mass one). The natural alternative is þLATT. 
4.4. The Role of LATT 
If the account given so far is correct, the semantic difference between 
count singular and plural/mass DPs is that in the former the set of singletons 
that the NP denotes is passed up to higher heads unaltered, while 
in the latter it is pluralized by * or ‚. We have argued that N needs to 
have an unvalued LATT feature, which the presence of Pl sets positively. 
Since features cannot remain unvalued, the question is what is the source 
of the )LATT value that singular count nouns need to receive. One possibility 
is that it comes from a ‘singular’ equivalent of Pl[þLATT], an abstract 
Pl[)LATT] head. But this choice is problematic: unlike its plural counterpart, 
Pl[)LATT] would be not only phonologically, but also semantically empty – a 
pure ad-hoc feature-assigning device. Allowing a head which is null and 
completely inactive to set the value of a feature would render the distinction 
between valued and unvalued features entirely moot. If instead we 
follow the hypothesis that such ‘‘radically empty’’ heads do not exist, we 
conclude that N must acquire a value for LATT from a source which has at 
least a phonology, if not a semantics. This source – we propose – is any 
overt singular determiner. 
This idea has some positive empirical consequence. As is well known, in 
most Germanic and Romance languages singular count nouns are impossible 
(66), contrasting with the broad acceptability of plural count and 
singular mass nouns (especially in object or predicative position; see 
Contreras 1986; Longobardi 1994). 
(66)a. Gianni e` *(un) uomo. 
John is *(a) man. 
b. Ho visto *(un) uomo. 
I have seen *(a) man. 
Our system offers a natural solution to this puzzle: plural count and singular 
mass nominals can take þLATT from the semantically active Pl, but singular 

count nouns cannot; a phonologically realized support element within the 
DP is needed to obtain the )LATT value on N.28,29 
Let us now examine the role of the second head associated with number: 
NumP. As we have seen, a cardinal occupying NumP has the semantic effect 
of filtering the denotation of its complement.30 We will assume that one and 
all simple singular count determiners are marked )LATT. Everything else 
(two, three, many, few, etc. for counts, much/little for masses, plus perhaps 
one point zero, zero, etc. – the last requiring a separate, intensional treatment) 
cooccurs with Pl and carries an unvalued LATT feature. 
One important question is the status of a phonologically empty Num 
head. Our proposal is that when they are merged into the syntactic structure, 
phonologically empty Num heads have a LATT feature, but no intrinsic value 
for it; thus, they must obtain this value by agreeing with a ±LATT-bearing 
head, Pl or an overt determiner. 
What is the semantic effect of ±LATT at NumP? The possibility we want 
to pursue is that Num[)LATT] is equivalent to a cardinal with the meaning one, 
and Num[+LATT] to a cardinal (set) meaning more than one. The former 
preserves only elements with one atom in the denotation of PlP, the latter 
removes exactly these elements. Pluralities formed by ‚ do not contain 
countable atoms, so cardinals above 1 will be ill-formed with them.31 
One[)LATT] water has a better chance of being acceptable, since the property 
½water does indeed contain one singular individual (the totality of water). 
We suggest that what makes this case impossible is the competition with the 
water (see end of sec. 4.2), since by hypothesis, water denotes a singular 
property in every possible situation – the wrong restriction for an indefinite 
article. 
28 Many languages have no articles and must have other ways to satisfy NLATT, but to our 
knowledge, no language exhibits the opposite pattern (bare count singular possible, bare plural/ 
mass nouns impossible), as predicted by our account. It must be added that many 
no-bare-singular-count languages do allow a restricted subset of nominals (typically profession 
names or kin terms) to appear bare in predicate position (see, for example, Munn and Schmitt 
2005); we set these aside for present purposes. 
29 Note that * John is dark man is no better than (66 a); adjectives contrast with determiners in 
this respect because they are themselves unvalued for the features LATT, PLUR, and GEND; if its 
semantics is compatible, the same adjective can easily accompany mass nouns as well as count 
nouns (dark water, dark chair). 
30 ‘‘Filtering’’ is a neutral term which reduces to intersective modification if number is represented 
as the set of all pluralities having a certain cardinality, but could also apply to more 
complex functions from pluralities to pluralities of the right size. 
31 Even when bottom elements could exist (e.g. the pieces of furniture), there is no homogeneous 
sortal criterion which can tell when this bottom layer has been reached (unlike the case of 
pluralities built bottom-up, from the atoms themselves); we take this to be sufficient reason for 
the impossibility of counting them. 

In conclusion, if NumP is present, the ±LATT value will always make an 
empty Num exclude either singular or plural individuals from a count PlP 
denotation. Schematically, starting from a situation such as (67 a) (NumP 
present but phonologically empty, Num and N unvalued for LATT, Pl valued), 
the ‘agree’ operation derives (67 b). (68) gives a sample denotation at 
the various layers. 
(67)a. [NumP Num[LATT] [PlP P1[PLUR,+LATT] [NP N[+PLUR,LATT]]]] 
b. [NumP Num[+LATT] [PlP P1[+LATT,+PLUR] [NP N[+LATT,+PLUR]]]]] 
(68)a. [NP N[LATT,+PLUR]]={{a}, {b}, {c}} 
b. [PlP P1[þLATT,+PLUR] [NP N[þLATT,+PLUR]]]={{a}, {b}, {c}, {a,b}, 
{a,c}, {b,c}, {a,b,c}} 
c. [NumP Num[+LATT] [PlP P1*[+LATT] [NP N[+LATT,+PLUR]]]]= 
{{a,b}, {a,c}, {b,c}, {a,b,c}} 
Now let’s consider another possibility. Suppose that an empty Num did not 
have an unvalued LATT feature. In this case, LATT would never play a role in 
the interpretation of Num. An empty NumP would be inactive and (by 
hypothesis) absent from the structure just like an empty PlP. The denotation 
of PlP (whether singular or plural) would not be filtered. This is a relevant 
result, since part of the problem of examples like (6), repeated below, is that 
if man and woman denotes a plural individual (a pair), as we have assumed, 
this plurality should not be filtered out by this in English, despite the fact 
that this is syntactically singular. 
(6) This man and woman are in love. 
We are now in a position to state the syntactic core of our proposal, and the 
root of the difference in the availability of a singular split interpretation for 
coordination in different languages. 
(69) NumP Parameter 
a. In English-type languages, Num never carries an unvalued 
LATT feature. 
b. In Italian-type languages, the phonologically empty Num 
head carries an unvalued LATT feature. 
The effect of this parameter is that in Italian-type languages (that is, languages 
that do not allow singular split conjunctions), both singulars and 
plurals are filtered at NumP. In English, on the other hand, singular or 
plural semantic number may just involve the presence or absence of the 
*-operator, and nothing else – unless of course a numeral is overtly present 

at NumP. Thus, in English a singular number on the noun does not entail 
that pluralities will be eliminated from its denotation. This is the first step in 
obtaining (6). 
4.5. Definite and Indefinite Articles 
Let us now consider the behavior of singular articles and numerals in more 
detail. Since in English (70) is as acceptable as (6), and by hypothesis man 
and woman denotes a plurality, we want to say, somewhat paradoxically, 
that even a or one do not always eliminate pluralities from the denotation 
they receive. 
(70) A/One [man and woman] were in love. 
Our proposal is that in English a (and, probably one, taken as a stressed 
counterpart of a, as in Perlmutter 1971) can be merged as a head of PlP, in 
complementary distribution with the Pl empty operators. A has no semantic 
role to play, but is inserted as a last restort to provide a )LATT value for N. 
NumP remains empty in this case, so according to our proposed parameter, 
it may be missing, as in (71 a); no filtering is performed. We propose that in 
Italian, on the other hand, the corresponding indefinite form un(o) must 
always appear at NumP. 
(71)a. [DP De [PlP a/one[)LATT] [NP soldier and sailor]]] 
b. *[DP De[NumP un[)LATT] [NP soldato e marinaio]]] 
Empirical evidence for this difference comes from various well-known uses 
of the English indefinite article which in Italian would be either unnecessary 
((72 a,b)) or impossible ((72 c), (73)) (Munn and Schmitt 2005). In particular, 
the cases in (73) (which have no literal equivalent in Italian) clearly show 
that a can appear below other determiners or operators.32 
(72)a. quella peste di (un) Gianni 
that rascal of *(a) Gianni 
b. Sarebbe pericoloso contare su di 
it would be dangerous to rely on 
lui [come (?un) testimone]. 
him [as *(a) witness] 
c. [Da (*un) esperto linguista], Gianni sapeva come 
[as *(an) expert linguist] Gianni knew how 
far crescere un albero sintattico. 
to grow a syntactic tree 
32 In many a time, a should be realized in P1 with an exceptional * meaning. As a reviewer points 
out, this would allow *too many a gumdrop and jellybean. We have no solution for this problem. 

(73)a. many a time 
b. too tall a man 
This does not imply, of course, that one can never appear in NumP. (In 
one or more people, one or two things, the word one behaves like all other 
numerals, and must be higher than the *-operator.) The possibility of a 
non-NumP position for a/one is sufficient to justify the acceptability of 
(70).33 
Turning to definites and demonstratives, the/this/that must be able to give 
N the )LATT value, in cases such as this coin/this change. As expected, 
coordinations of a mass and a count nominal are possible beneath a singular 
definite determiner:34 
(74) this/the biographical information and photograph 
Plural definites and demonstratives will either have no LATT feature or have 
it unvalued (acquiring a positive value from Pl). The semantic value of 
plural and singular definites will in any case be the same across singular and 
plural, i.e. Max. 
As pointed out by King and Dalrymple (2004) (who provide naturallyoccurring 
examples), the English definite determiner, which is not morphologically 
marked for number, can take a coordination of plural and 
singular PlPs as complement: 
(75)a. The stars and sun / sun and stars are an inspiration to bad 
poetry. 
b. My ears and nose / nose and ears were quite frozen. 
34 On the other hand, the case of some people / some water should probably be treated as an 
ambiguity, given the semantic difference between (ia) and (ib), and the ungrammaticality of (iic) 
(compare with (74)). 
(i)a. In the box there is some coin. (a specific coin) 
b. In the box there is some change. (any amount of change) 
(ii)a. I was looking for some photograph. 
b. I was looking for some biographical information. 
c. *I was looking for some biographical information and photograph. 
33 Assuming that 1.0 is unambiguously a numeral in NumP, we would predict that it would 
not allow the split reading even in English. The ungrammaticality of *one point zero cat and dog 
is not probative, however, since such numerals uniformly require syntactically plural complements 
(one point zero cat*(s)). It seems to us that (ia) is indeed unacceptable, but it is hard to 
tell whether there is clear water between this case and (ib), which is far from natural, even 
compared to (ic). 
(i)a. * The average family has 1.0 cats and dogs. 
b. ?*The average family has 2.0 cats and dogs. 
c. The average family back then had 23.0 ducks and hens. 

Evidently, the definite article must be able to contribute )LATT (to license 
the singular count noun) but also be compatible with a +LATT value for Pl 
on the plural noun. Rather than treating this phenomenon as an ambiguity, 
we prefer to regard this example as an instance of feature neutralization, 
formally similar to the cases discussed by Pullum and Zwicky (1986) (see 
(76)) and Bayer (1996). 
(76) Either they or you are2Pers-Sing/3Pres-Pl going to have to do it. 
These cases are best described as words that, being identical in the two 
forms, can have different feature values. The discussion is generally based 
on cases where the coinciding forms involve different features for a single 
value, but as far as we can tell there is no reason to make a distinction 
between these cases and one in which one ‘‘form’’ is not specified for a 
feature for which the other carries a particular value. Crucially, the definite 
article (and the possessive) is just like the cases discussed by Bayer 
(1996) in showing not only phonological but also semantic identity: the 
semantics of the definite itself, i.e. the function Max, remains the same 
whether or not LATT is present (and regardless of how it is specified). In 
analogy with cases like (76) then, we propose that English possessives and 
definite determiners can carry a )LATT feature-value pair (in the singular) 
or be unspecified for the feature (in the plural, where þLATT is specified 
on Pl), and that coordinations like (75) are to be analyzed on a par with 
(76). 
4.6. Gender and NumP 
As stated, the NumP Principle in (69) is not linked to other independently 
established differences between the relevant languages. A suggestive possibility 
is to try to derive this principle from the presence in many languages of 
grammatical gender agreement, given the well-established crosslinguistic 
connection between number and gender (see e.g. the gender-number 
agreement phenomena in Semitic languages; Corbett 2000, sec. 6.6; Lecarme 
2002). An approach in terms of gender would link the fact that Italian uno 
has to appear higher than PlP to the observation that uno and many 
determiners in this and other non-singular-split languages have overt gender 
marking. Vice-versa, the fact that English has the possibility of leaving a in a 
low, non-filtering position would follow from the lack of (gender) agreement 
on a. 
Suppose, for concreteness, that in Italian NumP carries a GEND feature, 
which forces any determiner marked for gender to be merged in NumP, or 
to transit through it on the way to DP. In English, gender is a notional and 

not a grammatical category (it refers to things, he to masculine human 
beings, etc.); NumP and determiners in general are not marked for gender 
and the latter are therefore under no syntactic obligation to appear in 
NumP. 
One result of this hypothesis is that in Italian two gender-marked 
determiners would compete for checking on the same NumP/GendP, and 
should thus be impossible. Indeed, in Italian, it is possible to combine 
definite determiners and cardinal numerals just as in English – but not when 
the numeral is uno, which alone of all the numerals carries gender agreement.
35 
(77)a. Ho visto {i/questi} quattro o cinque ragazzi. 
b. I have seen {the/these} four or five boys. 
(78)a. ??Ho visto {l’/quest’} un ragazzo. 
b. I have seen {the/this} one boy. 
Starting from the universal that if a language has gender, it also has number 
agreement, we can hypothesize that the obligatory presence of GEND at a 
head entails the presence of LATT and PLUR. The proposal in (69) could then 
be recast in terms of whether a phonetically empty NumP hosts a gender 
feature. 
(79) NumP Parameter (Gender version) 
In Italian-type languages, NumP needs to check gender 
agreement whenever a gender-marked determiner is present. 
However, when considered in more detail, this hypothesis faces various 
problems. For one thing, it is not clear why determiners couldn’t obtain 
their gender features directly from N, under Agree (which must obtain 
between these two heads, given the behavior of LATT). Next, the hypothesis 
that Romance NumP is valued for the gender feature raises the question of 
why no cardinal numerals but uno are gender-marked. Typologically, the 
correlation between singular-split languages and lack of gender in the 
determiner system is sustained in Finnish, an English-type language with 
respect to split readings, which lacks gender agreement, but finds a counterexample 
in Dutch, which has a Neuter and a ‘‘Common’’ (Masculine/ 
35 Following Crisma (1991), Cinque (1994), Zamparelli (1995), and subsequent work, we take 
adjectives to head extended projections containing their own agreement phrases. A consequence 
is that while in (78) the definite and indefinite articles compete for a single agreement position, 
the plural definite can be followed by adjectives that have the status of numerals, such as molti/ 
pochi ‘many/few’ (see Carden 1976; Giusti 1992), because these words are self-sufficient with 
respect to agreement positions. 

Feminine) gender. For these reasons, pending further studies, we retain the 
more conservative version of the parameter stated in (69).36 
4.7. Bare Nominals 
A last aspect to consider before turning to NP conjunction is the possibility 
of cases where even in Italian the denotation delivered by PlP would not be 
filtered. In these cases, Italian should behave just like English with respect to 
plurality. 
The first example comes from bare plurals. (80) is entirely parallel to (53), 
and clearly false in exactly the same conditions. 
(80)a. Non ci sono [parenti di mio padre] in questo governo. 
not there are [relatives of my father] in this government 
‘There aren’t relatives of my father in this government.’ 
(false if one is in) 
b. Non ho mai conosciuto [linguisti che avessero incontrato 
not I have ever met [linguists who have met 
Jakobson]. 
Jakobson]. 
‘I have never met [linguists who have met Jakobson].’ 
(false if I met one) 
The simplest account for these facts is probably the proposal in Zimmermann 
(1993) and Van Geenhoven (1996), according to which the bracketed noun 
phrases above are property-denoting subparts of full DPs, which undergo 
semantic incorporation with the verb. Suppose, specifically, that crosslinguistically, 
these nominals are ‘bare PlPs’; the DP layer is missing, and since 
there is no D to select NumP, the NumP layer can be missing as well. PlP, 
however, cannot be missing, or N[LATT] would remain unvalued. But since the 
plurality formed by Pl[þPLUR] is not filtered, singletons will be present in the 
denotation of the plural nominals in any language, Italian included.37 
A second case where Italian resembles English is the ‘bare noun coordination’ 
discussed in Heycock and Zamparelli (2003), where even bare 
singulars may occur, with a meaning similar to definites: 
36 Munn and Schmitt (2005) propose that English and Romance differ in whether a Number 
Phrase is projected: Number would be always present in English but optionally absent in 
Romance. This seems to be the exact opposite of our proposal, but in fact Munn and Schmitt’s 
‘‘Number Phrase’’ does not correspond to our NumP since it doesn’t appear to host numerals. 
We will not explore the possibility of integrating the two approaches. 
37 Note that we are not saying that the bare-PlP structure is the only possible structure for 
(80); likewise, we are not claiming that kind-denoting bare plurals are bare PlPs. Both 
assumptions are unnecessary for the point we are making, and quite possibly false. 

(81) Quando apparecchi la tavola, [coltello e forchetta] vanno 
when you set the table, [knife and fork] go 
ai lati opposti del piatto. 
at the opposite sides of the plate 
Crucially for the argument here, such coordinations have a split interpretation 
even in Italian. 
Heycock and Zamparelli (2003) show that knife and fork is a conjunction 
of NPs (or in the present system, PlPs) which has raised to the Spec of a 
single DP, acquiring all its feature values in that position. 
(82) [DP [PlP knife and fork]i De [NumP Nume ti] ] 
Here, we can hypothesize that the ±LATT value does reach NumP, but the 
PlP denotation is interpreted directly in the [Spec,DP] position and not fed 
to Num. As a result, no filtering takes place. 
4.8. Singular Quantifiers 
The third case where Italian behaves like English is in a sense the opposite of 
the one just discussed. In bare singular conjunctions, the PlPs were interpreted 
above the filtering point. Another possibility is that a PlP denotation 
may be used as a restriction for a variable at a point below the level at which 
filtering should occur. 
We noted in the data section that in Italian the quantifiers ogni ‘every,’ 
qualche ‘somesing,’ qualunque ‘anysing,’ ciascuno ‘each,’ and nessuno 
‘no/no-one’ are acceptable with singular split readings, particularly in object 
position (83). What these quantifiers have in common is that they are singular 
and have no plural counterpart. Apart from the last two, which we 
return to shortly, they have no gender morphology. We will refer to this 
class as singular quantifiers. 
(83) Non posso lucidare {ogni / qualche / ciascun / qualsiasi / nessun} 
I cannot polish {every / some / each / any / no-one} 
coltello e cucchiaio in mezzo minuto. 
knife and spoon in half a minute 
The contrast between these cases and other singular determiners is striking. 
Our proposal is that like a/one in English, these quantifiers are generated as 
heads of Pl, where they provide a )LATT value; from Pl, they probably raise 
to a higher position (DP), leaving a trace which is interpreted as a variable 
bound by the quantifier and restricted by the denotation of the NP. 
(84) [DP ogni/qualchei [NumP ti [Pl ti [NP ...]]]] 

Since these quantifiers are in complementary distribution with the empty Pl 
operators, their argument can never be mass or plural count. Direct evidence 
for the existence of a ‘low’ determiner position comes from the fact 
that some quantifiers in this class can appear under an indefinite article.38 
(85)a. un qualche libro 
a some book 
(a book of some sort) 
b. un qualsiasi libro 
an any book 
(a single book, it doesn’t matter which one you pick) 
Here uno functions as a normal indefinite article in Num and qualche/ 
qualsiasi as a modifier, as indicated by the glosses. In this case, we propose 
that the singular quantifier does not move to DP, and no variable is left in 
Pl; the denotation of N reaches NumP[)LATT] as is normally the case with 
the indefinite article, and pluralities are filtered out. Under the hypothesis 
that coltello e cucchiaio denotes the property of a plurality, the difference 
between (86 a) (with the structure in (84), and no filtering) and (86 b) (with 
filtering) is predicted. 
(86)a. Posso lucidare ciascun/qualsiasi coltello e 
I can polish each/any knife and 
cucchiaio. split possible 
spoon 
b. *Posso lucidare un {qualche/qualsiasi} coltello e 
I can polish a {some/any} knife and 
cucchiaio. split impossible 
spoon 
Not all quantifiers have the in situ option. For the singular quantifiers 
nessuno ‘NEG+one’ and ciascuno ‘each+one’ we suggest that the morphemes 
ciasc-(‘each’) and ness-(‘no-’) are merged in Pl, but obligatorily 
incorporate with uno in Num and raise from there to DP. Crucially, even 
though uno/a agrees with N and must thus trigger filtering, the variable 
bound by ciasc-/ness- is below the filtering point, NumP, and ranges over the 
unfiltered denotation of the NP. 
38 A related set of facts, which we will not address here, is the appearance of quale ‘which’ and 
cui ‘whose’ after a definite article, in certain types of Italian relative clauses. 
(i)a. il quale ragazzo 
the which boy 
b. il cui padre 
the whose father 

(87) [DP ciasc-uno/ness-uno [NumP t [P1P t [NP N]]]] 
The complementary distribution of the Pl semantic pluralizer and nessexplains 
the absence in Italian of a plural version of nessuno ‘no/no-one’ in 
the paradigm in (88 a). Note that the problem here is not in the absence of a 
plural form for the numeral uno: in (87 b) alc-uni contains this plural form, 
but only with a non-negative meaning which excludes singulars (plural 
‘some’).39 
(88)a. Non ho visto {nessun ragazzo / *nessuni ragazzi}. 
I haven’t seen {no+onesing boy / ‘no+onesplur boys} 
‘I haven’t seen any boy/boys.’ 
b. Non ho visto alcuni ragazzi. 
I haven’t seen some+ones boys 
‘I haven’t seen some boys.’ 
To sum up: Our theory predicts that languages where empty NumP 
projections do not filter for lack of the LATT feature should all have singular 
and plural split readings. Among languages where empty NumP is normally 
active as a filter, singular split readings may also occur, in three circumstances: 
when the whole noun phrase is reduced to a bare PlP and no DP/ 
NumP layer is present, when a PlP conjunction is interpreted above NumP 
(as in (82)), or when the determiner is a quantifier which binds a variable 
below the filtering point (at Pl, we have proposed). A/one (and all numerals) 
do not bind variables; they are either support elements to provide the )LATT 
feature, or filters (this second option, only when interpreted at NumP).40 
Since singularities are filtered out of an Italian plural DP, but not out of 
an English DP, one could ask why English speakers don’t say the boys 
instead of the boy in a context with one boy. The answer is that having a 
singular denotation hidden in the plural does not entail using it, provided 
an alternative with unambiguously singular meaning is available. The use of 
a plural noun to convey a singular meaning would involve a vacuous 
application of the *-operator, since if the plural was used in a context where 
NP denotes a singular property (the appropriate context for a singular 
40 A final question about singular quantifiers is why split readings under every seem to allow 
both cumulative and distributive predicates, while split readings under no only allow cumulative 
ones: 
(i)a. Every man and woman {had lived alone at some point / were married to each other} 
b. No man and woman {?? had lived alone at some point / were married to each other} 
The answer is simply that in (ia), if the distributive predicate truthfully applies to the pair it 
applies to each member; but this isn’t the case with no, as the reader can easily verify. 
39 We suggest that the English no, which may be either singular or plural, may be realized in a 
higher position, perhaps D itself. 

definite), *½NP would be equal to ½NP and pluralization would have no 
effect, in conflict with the principle in (49). 
5. CONJUNCTION 
5.1. DP-internal Conjunction as Set Product 
Having set out our position concerning the structure of noun phrases and 
the behavior of the features associated with number within the nominal 
system, we now return to the interpretation of conjunction. 
Recall that our problem, as pointed out already by Cooper (1979), Partee 
and Rooth (1983), Dowty (1988), was that if conjunction of common nouns 
were interpreted as the intersection of the sets of individuals denoted by the 
conjuncts, only the joint reading should be obtained. This gives the correct 
interpretations for (89 a,b) and (90 a), but not for (90 b). 
(89)a. That man is [friendly and collegial]. 
b. My [friend and colleague] was waiting in the bar. 
(90)a. # That individual is [male and female]. 
b. That [man and woman] waited for me in the bar. 
The problem here is clearly that the intersection of ½man and ½woman is 
empty. Thus the split reading of (90 b) is not captured. 
Treating singular split conjunction as set union, rather than intersection, 
also fails to yield the correct result. If ½man is {a, b, c}, and ½woman is 
{d, e, f}, then ½man and woman would be {a, b, c, d, e, f}. But under 
standard accounts of disjunction, this is precisely the interpretation of man 
or woman. Yet, we do not want the denotation of a man and woman to be a 
single individual of either sex, but a pair of individuals. It might be thought 
that one could keep to set union, but somehow allow the DP to refer to a 
plurality built from the set of individuals. But this would result in serious 
overgeneration: there is neither a principled way to then restrict that man 
and woman to refer to exactly two individuals (rather than three or more), 
nor a way to ensure that it refers to a pair comprised of one man and one 
woman, rather than two men or two women. 
Our proposal instead is that, crosslinguistically, conjunction be interpreted 
as an operation which, given two or more sets (the denotations of 
each conjunct), takes a member from each set, performs set union on the 
resulting tuple, and then returns the set of all the results (Heycock and 
Zamparelli 1999, 2000). We will refer to this operation as set product; it can 
be defined as follows: 

(91) Set Product (SP) 
SP(S1,. . .,Sn) = def {X : X=A1[. . .[ An,A1 . S1,. . ., An . Sn} 
For an example of how this works, consider (92) and (93): 
(92)a. ½ NPib = {{a}, {b}}, ½ NPjb = {{c}, {d}} 
b. ½ NPi and NPjb= SP(½ NPib,½NPjb) = {{a,c} {a,d} {b,c} {b,d}} 
(93)a. ½ NPib = {{a}, {b}, {c}}, ½ NPjb = {{c}, {d}} 
b. ½ NPi andNPjb=SP(½ NPib, ½NPjb) = {{a,c} {a,d} {b,c} {b,d} {c,d} {c}} 
As can be seen from these examples, where two non-empty, non-intersecting 
sets of elements are combined by the set product operation (as in (92)), the 
result will be a set of two-membered sets. Crucially, if the two sets intersect 
at all (as is the case in (93), where {c} is a member of both), for each element 
contained in both sets there will be a corresponding element/singleton set in 
the result. 
This operation is clearly more complex than simple set union or set 
intersection. As we shall see, however, it has exactly the properties required 
for capturing the facts concerning nominal conjunction that were set out in 
section 3. For the moment, note that the set of singleton sets in SP(S1, . . ., Sn) 
corresponds exactly to the intersection of S1,. . ., Sn.41 
5.2. Singular Conjunction 
Consider first the conjunction of singular NPs. On the assumption that the 
sets denoted by the NPs soldier and sailor are disjoint, as in (94 a), we obtain 
(94 b): 
41 If the denotation of one conjunct is empty our semantics in (91) returns the SP of the 
remaining conjuncts. This means that (ia) should be equivalent to (ib) and true if men exist but 
unicorns don’t. 
(i)a. A man and unicorn could exist. 
b. A man could exist. 
One solution is to redefine SP, enforcing a restriction against vacuous conjuncts. 
(ii) Set Product (presuppositional version) 
SP(S1,. . . , Sn)=def {X : X=A1¨ . . . ¨An, A1 . S1, . . . ,An . Sn} if 
S1 „ ; ^ . . . ^ Sn „ ;, 
undefined otherwise 
Another solution is to impute the problems of (ia) to a pragmatic condition which rules out 
vacuous uses of conjunction. We feel that this is probably to be preferred, since such a constraint 
is necessary in any case for ill-formed conjunctions like (iii), which no purely logical 
condition can possibly exclude. See section 5.4 for similar cases. 
(iii) *This man and man was / were tall. 

(94)a. ½soldierb = {{a}, {b}, {c}}, ½sailorb = {{m},{n}, {o}} 
b. ½soldier and sailorb = SP(½soldierb,½sailorb) 
= {{a,m}, {a,n}, {a,o}, {b,m}, {b,n}, {b,o}, {c,m}, {c,n}, {c,o}} 
That is, the interpretation of the whole conjunction is a set of all possible 
pairs consisting of one soldier and one sailor. This is exactly as required for 
the singular split reading. 
The joint reading follows equally straightforwardly. This interpretation 
can only arise in a model where there is overlap – whether partial or total – 
between the denotations of the two NPs. (95) illustrates total overlap of the 
two conjuncts, with three people who qualify both as friends and colleagues. 
(96) illustrates partial overlap. 
(95)a. ½friendb = {{a}, {b}, {c}}, ½colleagueb = {{a}, {b}, {c}} 
b. ½friend and colleagueb = SP(½friendb, ½colleagueb) 
= {{a}, {b}, {c}, {a,b}, {a,c}, {b,c}} 
(96)a. ½friendb = {{a}, {b}, {c}}, ½colleagueb = {{b}, {c}, {d}}, 
b. ½friend and colleagueb = SP (½friendb, ½ colleagueb) 
= {{b}, {c}, {a,b}, {a,c}, {a,d}, {b,c} {b,d} {c,d}} 
As can be seen from these examples, apart from the limit case where 
the denotation of each of the conjuncts contains only one individual, the same 
in each conjunct, NP conjunction always produces these ‘‘mixed’’ readings. 
What has been said so far holds for English and Italian-type languages 
alike, but differences begin to emerge when these denotations are embedded 
in more structure. Consider for example a definite DP like the soldier and 
sailor, which would be well-formed in English in a model where there was a 
(contextually relevant) single soldier and a single (distinct) sailor, given that 
the extracts the supremum of its complement (which is not defined for a set 
containing no single maximal superset). Recall that a phonologically empty 
NumP is inactive/absent in English when it is not lexically filled, and that a 
‘‘semantically singular’’ PlP is always missing. 
(97)a. ½ [NP soldier] b = {{a}}, ½ [NP sailor] b = {{m}} 
b. ½ [NP soldier and sailor] b = SP(½ [NP soldier] b, ½ [NP sailor]b) 
= {{a,m}} 
c. ½ [DP the [NP soldier and sailor]] b = Max(½ [NP soldier and 
sailor] b) = {a,m} 
Now consider what happens in Italian when this conjunction is embedded in 
a DP. Up to NP, the conjunction proceeds in exactly the same way and 
yields the same interpretation. 

Crucially, though, in this language NumP is present. Moreover, some 
overt determiner must be present, to deliver the )LATT value. In the 
example, Num receives the )LATT feature trom il and filters the PlP 
denotation: only elements in the set which contain a single atom are preserved. 
In the case of split conjunction ½PlP contains one or more twomembered 
sets; these will be removed.42 
(98)a. ½ [NP soldato e marinaio] b = SP(½ [NP soldato] b, ½ [NP marinaio] b) 
= {{a,m}} 
b. ½ [NumP Num[)LATT] [NP soldato e marinaio]] b = ; 
c. ½ [DP il[)LATT] [NumP Num[)LATT] [NP soldato e marinaio]]] b= 
Max(½ [NumP soldato e marinaio] b) = Max(;) = undefined 
Since two-membered sets are removed from ½PlP, the only elements that 
will ever remain in the case of conjoined singulars are singletons, i.e. singular 
individuals. If any such are present, the joint reading results. If the two sets 
are entirely disjoint, however, as in the example above, the restriction will be 
empty and the result undefined. Interestingly, the same is true with mass 
nouns like acqua ‘water’ and terra ‘soil,’ due to the way we have defined the 
semantics of mass and of the definite article. 
(99)a. ½ [NP acqua e terra] b = SP(½ [NP acqua] b, ½ [NP terra] b) = {{a,t}} 
b. ½ [NumP Num[)LATT] [NP acqua e terra]] b = ; 
c. ½ [DP 1’[)LATT] [NumP Num[)LATT] [NP acqua e terra]]] b= 
Max(½ [NumP acqua e terra] b) = Max(;) = undefined 
This is not a trivial result, considering that in other respects masses are 
known to pattern as plural count nouns, whose split conjunction is indeed 
acceptable. 
Our account crucially assumes that in cases like *il soldato e marinaio, 
coordination takes place below the level of NumP; if this was not the case, 
filtering would affect the two conjuncts independently and the following 
derivation could be used to derive the split reading also in Italian: 
(100)a. ½ [NP soldato] b = ½ [NumP soldato] b = {{a}}, 
½ [NP marinaio] b = ½ [NumP marinaio] b = {{m}} 
42 In (98 b) we show the subtree consisting of NumP in order to make it clear what the 
denotation of this piece of structure is; the value of LATT is only set, however, when this subtree 
occurs as the complement of a D, as discussed in the text. 

b. ½ [NumP Num[)LATT] soldato e marinaio] b 
= SP(½ [NumP Num[)LATT] soldato] b, ½ [NumP Num[)LATT] 
marinaio] b) 
= SP({{a}},{{m}}) = {{a,m}} Coordination of NumPs! 
c. ½ [DP il [NumP soldato e marinaio]] b = Max(½ [NumP soldato e 
marinaio] b) 
= Max({{a,m}}) = {a,m} 
We can derive this assumption from a more general principle of economy: 
(101) Economy of Coordinate Structure 
Avoid duplication of identical structure within coordination. 
That is, if a NumP layer is present in two conjuncts, with the same feature 
values and no overt content, only the structure in (102 b) is allowed. 
(102)a. [DP il [ [NumP Num [NP soldato]] & [NumP Num [NP marinaio]]]] 
b. [DP il [ [NumP Num[ [NP soldato]] & [NP marinaio]]]] 
If, on the other hand, the two noun phrases contain multiple overt numerals, 
the structure in (102 a) becomes possible, and indeed necessary. 
5.3. Plural Conjunction 
So far we have considered only singular conjunction. We have demonstrated 
how the properties of Num interact with the proposed interpretation of 
conjunction to yield the observed pattern: crosslinguistic availability of the 
joint reading, and a split reading limited to cases where filtering is not 
applied to the conjoined NP denotation. We now turn to the interpretation 
of plural conjunctions. 
Assuming a model with two soldiers and two (distinct) sailors, we have: 
(103)a. ½ [NP soldiers] b= {{a}, {b}}, ½ [NP sailors] b = {{m},{n}} 
b. ½ [NP sailors and soldiers] b = SP(½ [NP soldiers] b,½ [NP sailors] b) 
c. = {{a,m}, {a,n}, {b,m}, {b,n}} 
Up to this point, there is no difference between ½soldier and sailor and 
½soldiers and sailors. However, since the latter occurs as the complement of 
Pl[+LATT,+PLUR], pluralization is triggered and the interpretations of singular 
and plural conjunctions diverge. 
(104) ½ [PlP Pl[+LATT,+PLUR] [NP sailors and soldiers]] b = 
*½ [NP sailors and soldiers] b 
= *{{a,m}, {a,n}, {b,m}, {b,n}} 
= {{a,m}, {a,n}, {b,m}, {b,n}, {a,m,n}, {a,b,m}, 
{a,b,n},{b,m,n},{a,b,m,n}} 

As can be seen, ½[PlP sailors and soldiers] is a set containing all possible 
sets composed by at least one soldier and at least one sailor. This corresponds 
well to linguistic intuitions about the meaning of the conjunction, 
as opposed to the disjunction soldiers or sailors, as observed in section 
3.2.1. On the other hand, this account of conjunction correctly predicts the 
existence of ‘‘mixed’’ readings. Consider now the case in which PlP is the 
complement of an overt cardinal in NumP, e.g. three. Now the denotation 
of the NumP will contain all the sets in the PlP denotation that have three 
atoms: 
(105) ½ [NumP three soldiers and sailors] b={{a,m,n},{a,b,m}, 
{a,b,n},{b,m,n}} 
Again, the interpretation of the Italian equivalent tre soldati e marinai would 
be identical.43 
It is noticeable that split readings under cardinal numerals tend to be 
better with larger numbers; in particular, the cardinals two and (to a lesser 
extent) three are deviant both in Italian-type and English-type languages. 
There is no comparable effect with the joint reading. 
(106)a. (I){*due / ??tre / ?quattro / dodici} coltelli e cucchiai sono 
(the) {2 / 3 / 4 / 12} knives and spoons are 
accanto al piatto. 
beside to the plate 
‘(The) two/three/four/twelve knives and spoons are beside the 
plate.’ 
b. (Quei) venti generali americani e diplomatici yugoslavi 
(those) 20 generals American and diplomats Yugoslavian 
non raggiungeranno mai un accordo. 
not will reach ever an agreement 
‘Those twenty American generals and Yugoslavian diplomats will 
never reach an agreement.’ 
43 An exception is evidently that when there is total or partial overlap between the sets of 
individuals contributed by the two conjuncts (as for example would be possible in the case of 
friends and colleagues), the singletons arising from the overlap would be preserved in English, 
but not in Italian-type languages. Thus in the limit case of total overlap, (i) in English could 
refer to a single individual: 
(i) [DP my [P1P [NP friends and colleagues]]] 
The oddness of this case can be accounted for in the same way as the oddness of the boys in the 
context of one boy (section 4.8). 

With small numbers, it is sometimes difficult to tell whether judgments 
correspond to the predictions of our analysis, which generates all the following 
examples, in both types of language: 
(107)a. twenty men and women 
b. four men and women 
c. three men and women 
d. two men and women 
The (a) and (b) examples tend to be accepted by all native speakers, 
although the higher number in (a) is felt to be more natural; there is considerable 
variation in the acceptability reported for (c), and all speakers 
agree that (d) is unacceptable or infelicitous. We will argue that in this and 
other cases pragmatic considerations constrain the actual acceptabilitity of 
the conjunction. 
5.4. Pragmatic Issues in Conjunction 
Observe that in our system the denotation of the DP twenty men and 
women will necessarily include sets containing nineteen men and a single 
woman and vice versa (in both language types), as well as those containing 
ten men and ten women, etc. We take this to be the correct 
result: our judgment is that (108) would be falsified if there was one door 
guarded only by twenty sailors, but not if one was guarded by nineteen 
sailors and one soldier: 
(108) Every door was guarded by (some combination of) twenty soldiers 
and sailors. 
If this interpretation is indeed possible, there seems no straightforward 
semantic way to exclude the DP in (107 c), even though this seems significantly 
less acceptable. We take the main reason for this effect to be 
pragmatic in nature. According to our analysis, there are only two possible 
ways for the group denoted by three men and women to be constituted: 
two men and one woman, or two women and one man. Given 
Grice’s Maxim of Quantity, any speaker who knows that there is in fact 
only one man or one woman in the group should refer to it with the 
more informative one woman/man and two men/women. Further, given 
this small a number it is hard to imagine a context in which the speaker 
does not know whether there is only one man or only one woman, but 
does know that there is at least one (since if not, three men or women 
would be the appropriate description). This also explains why relatively 
small numbers (where it is likely that the speaker would have been able 

to notice the relative cardinality of the groups) are felt to be less natural 
in general than large ones.44 
Equally, under our analysis as it currently stands (107 d) is syntactically 
and semantically well-formed. The marginality of this example is harder to 
explain by Gricean principles. There is only one possible interpretation for 
this phrase: a group of one man and one woman. There are of course 
alternative ways to express this meaning: 
(109)a. one man and woman 
b. one man and one woman 
But it is not clear what Gricean principle would lead these to be preferred. 
Instead we hypothesize that the marginal status of the examples is due to the 
principle against vacuous pluralization in (49), and thus to the general 
strategy of avoiding the marked plural morphology when unnecessary.45 
Although (107 d) is universally judged to be deviant, it is also perceived to 
have a quite different status from the syntactically deviant (110), ruled out 
by the mismatch between the )PLUR features that must be instantiated on 
the nouns (given the morphology) and the þPLUR specification of the numeral. 
(111) will be ruled out in exactly the same way: 
(110) *two man and woman 
(111) *those children and adult 
In such examples, there is conflict between the PLUR features instantiated on 
the second noun and the feature on the determiner.46 
A final point regarding plural coordination concerns the observation in 
section 3.2.2 that cases with the same numeral in each conjunct strongly 
resist a joint reading: 
(112) My four friends and four colleagues appeared on my doorstep. 
total: 8 
44 The pattern in (106) is replicated in the Italian (semi)partitive structure with tra ‘among’ 
mentioned in footnote 14: 
(i) { ??due/ ?tre/ venti } tra ragazzi e ragazze. . . 
two three twenty among boys and girls 
Since the syntax and the compositional semantics of the tra construction are distinct from the 
DP-internal coordination that we have been looking at, the replication of the judgments supports 
our view that the effect is essentially pragmatic. 
45 There is an alternative possible account for the oddness of three men and women and the 
even more severe oddness of two men and women, and that is the hypothesis that a hearer 
expects a plural noun to contribute more than one entity. This expectation is necessarily violated 
by one of the nouns in three men and women, and by both in two men and women. 
46 Gender conflict in languages with grammatical gender gives quite variable results, a 
discussion of which is beyond the scope of this article. 

It turns out that this effect is shared by non-numeral modifiers, whether in 
the singular or plural: 
(113) My Italian friend and Italian colleague {*was / were} on my 
doorstep. 
The natural way to obtain a joint reading is to unify the numeral or adjective 
and coordinate at NP: 
(114) My {four / Italian} friends and colleagues were at my doorstep. 
Since four is present twice in the numeration for (112), two separate 
NumP must be projected. We propose that the lack of joint reading is 
once again derived pragmatically. The task of the DP in (114) is that of 
fixing the reference: it must be informative enough to let the hearer know 
which objects the predicate should apply to. Given Grice’s Maxim of 
Quantity, any element it contains should provide useful information to 
this effect. Now, if the joint reading was intended, the second instance of 
four or of an intersective adjective like Italian would be redundant. If, on 
the other hand, the intended reading is split, four and Italian are informative, 
since in this reading numbers and properties can vary independently 
in each conjunct.47 
Evidently the issue of a possible joint reading doesn’t arise in the case of 
different numbers (e.g. the [two friends and four colleagues]) since such a 
reading would have a single variable restricted with the property of being a 
group of four and a group of two individuals. But restriction, just like 
predication, cannot apply to a subpart of its argument, possibily because 
this would violate (some version of) the principle of Full Interpretation. 
(115)a. *Those four people are two students. The other two are 
professors. 
b. *‘‘A’’, ‘‘B’’, and ‘‘e’’ are two vowels and two capital letters. 
6. PREVIOUS AND ALTERNATIVE ACCOUNTS 
As indicated in the introduction, there are to the best of our knowledge no 
accounts of the pattern of data presented in the last section because the full 
47 This effect is much weaker in predicative nominals like (190), which seem to have reasonably 
accessible joint readings; similar facts hold for Italian. 
(i)a. John and Mary are [my [two best friends] and [two oldest colleagues]]. 
b. I consider John and Mary [two excellent philosophers] but [two lousy 
parents], 
c. The new job turned John and Mary into [two frustrated linguists] and 
[two experts on academic politics]. 
At the moment we have no explanation for this difference. 

pattern has not been described to date. There have, however, been analyses 
dealing with subsets of the data; in this section we will give at least an 
overview of these accounts. We will show that each has various problems. 
In our view, the shortcoming of the analysis in King and Dalrymple 
(2004) (the only account to give a detailed crosslinguistic paradigm) is that it 
does not address the first issue that we posed at the outset, in section 2.2: 
I. What semantics for conjunction can capture the full range of DP-internal 
cases? 
Our main reason for rejecting the other accounts is that we do not see any 
principled way to extend them so that they can answer to the second issue: 
II. What is the difference between English and languages that do not allow 
a singular split reading? Why does this difference break down in the 
plural? 
6.1. Concord and Agreement 
There are two crucial aspects to the proposal made in King and Dalrymple 
(2004). The first is a distinction between two types of agreement features: 
CONCORD features and INDEX features. The first generally control agreement 
within the DP and are primarily syntactic; the second control agreement 
between the DP and bound pronouns (and often the verb) and have more 
semantic content, although the actual semantics of plural and singular 
specification for the INDEX feature is not spelled out. The second crucial 
aspect of the proposal is an ambiguity for and (and its counterparts in other 
languages). One and has the standard Boolean semantics and contributes no 
agreement features of its own; what is required is that the INDEX NUM of the 
coordinate structure be the same as one of the conjunct phrases (which in 
turn are assumed to have to match each other for semantic reasons). The 
other and has a ‘‘group forming’’ interpretation, the semantics of which is 
not specified. This second and itself requires that the coordinate NP as a 
whole have a plural specification for INDEX NUM. 
The way these parts of the proposal interact to account for the behaviors 
of English and Italian (other possible systems are also discussed and analyzed) 
is as follows: both languages have both types of and. English determiners 
such as that/those specify a particular CONCORD value for the 
coordinate phrase, but they do not determine an INDEX value. Thus the two 
features may have different values within a single English noun phrase, as 
they do in the case of the singular split reading (this boy and girl), where the 
INDEX agreement feature is plural (required by the collective and, and 

reflected in verbal agreement), while the CONCORD feature is singular 
(inherited from the individual conjuncts). 
Italian determiners such as questo/questi, on the other hand, specify both 
a particular CONCORD value and the identical INDEX value. If two singulars 
are coordinated with Boolean and, both CONCORD and INDEX features for the 
coordination will be singular, so there is no conflict. If two singulars are 
coordinated with the ‘‘group-forming’’ and, the CONCORD feature will again 
be singular, but the INDEX feature will be plural, as we have seen. But since in 
this language determiners specify both types of agreement feature, this 
conflict between the singular INDEX feature required by the singular determiner 
and the plural INDEX feature contributed by collective and will result in 
ungrammaticality. Hence the lack of singular split cases in Italian. In the 
plural, however, both types of and will be able to occur, since there will 
never be any conflict between the plural INDEX feature of collective and and 
the plural INDEX feature of the plural determiner. 
As should be clear, we are in agreement with King and Dalrymple (2004) 
that the facts require two different types of agreement feature: our PLUR is a 
purely syntactic feature (and therefore corresponds largely to CONCORD), 
while LATT signals semantic plurality, in a broad sense (and therefore corresponds, 
even more roughly, to INDEX – one important difference being that 
in our proposal this feature captures the well-known similarities between 
plurals and mass nouns). There is thus considerable overlap in the two 
accounts. Setting aside various differences of greater or lesser degrees of 
detail, there are however two important, closely related differences between 
our approach and that of King and Dalrymple. 
First, we are able to maintain the assumption that there is a single lexical 
item and; King and Dalrymple instead have to posit the existence in every 
language of two distinct homophonous items, with distinct semantics, one of 
which (the group-forming and) must in addition have a number specification 
of its own. 
Second, we have attempted to set out explictly the semantics both of 
conjunction and of plurality that are relevant to the types of conjunction at 
issue. Since King and Dalrymple do not specify either, it is hard to tell at 
some points what their proposal entails. Most importantly, it is unclear 
what the semantics could be for their proposed ‘‘group-forming’’ and, and 
exactly what a plural INDEX value entails. For example, as discussed earlier, 
we predict that three boys and girls is well-formed; also that twenty friends 
and colleagues means a group composed of twenty people, each one of which 
is either a friend or a colleague or both, and which contains at least one 
friend and one colleague. With respect to the first example, we think that it 
would probably be excluded in the King and Dalrymple system, though this 

is actually difficult to determine. Similarly, for King and Dalrymple the 
second example is ambiguous between a reading with Boolean and and one 
with ‘‘group-forming’’ and, but it is again hard to tell whether or not the 
second interpretation rules out a ‘‘mixed’’ reading of partial overlap (or 
whether it allows an interpretation with, for example, one friend and 
nineteen colleagues). 
Finally, we should at least briefly address the two problems that King and 
Dalrymple raise for our account.48 First, they point out that our account 
predicts that a plural like my friends and colleagues could, in a particular 
model, refer to a single individual. This is, however, a direct consequence of 
our choice to follow Lasersohn (1995) and Schwarzschild (1996) in allowing 
(uncoordinated) bare plurals to include singletons in their denotation, for 
the reasons (completely independent of coordination) discussed in section 
4.2 and in the cited literature. Nothing in our proposal would change if we 
made the other choice, except that we would face the problems discussed in 
that section; King and Dalrymple do not say how these problems should be 
better resolved. 
Second, King and Dalrymple point out that our account does not extend 
to Greek, a language in which split readings are impossible for definite noun 
phrases even in the plural, as was illustrated in (37), repeated here as (116). 
(116)a. *oi ga´ tes kai ko´ ttes 
the-PL cats and chickens 
b. merike´s ga´ tes kai ko´ ttes 
several-PL cats and chickens 
We do indeed have no account at present for the absence of a split reading 
for plural examples like (116 a). However, as far as we are able to determine 
this is also true for King and Dalrymple. Greek does not figure in the 
typology of languages that falls out from the different ways of specifying 
INDEX and CONCORD features because none of the combinations would rule 
out (116 a). Given the grammaticality of the split reading in (116 b), presumably 
King and Dalrymple would not want to claim that Greek lacks the 
‘‘group-forming’’ and (a possiblity that their system does however predict). 
The only solution that we see available to them but not to us is that of 
making the plural definite determiner require not only a plural INDEX feature, 
but also a conjunction containing the Boolean and, while excluding 
those containing ‘‘group-forming’’ and. While this is presumably technically 
feasible, it would be the only case we have ever come across of this kind of 
48 King and Dalrymple raise a third issue, that of mixed singular plural coordinations like the 
cat and dogs. They are correct that these cases were not discussed in our earlier papers; they are 
however addressed here in section 4.5. 

selection. We therefore consider that the lack of a split reading in Greek 
examples like (116 a) is an unsolved problem under all analyses. 
6.2. Split Conjunction and Type-Raising 
The first analysis of singular split conjunction that we have found in the 
literature is a brief discussion in Dowty (1988, pp. 173–176). This analysis is 
based on the analysis of split plural conjunction given in Partee and Rooth 
(1983) (who cite Cooper 1979), taken together with the account of agreement 
in Hoeksema (1983). The central idea of this analysis is that split 
conjunction is the result of type-raising the denotations of the common 
nouns so that they become functions over the translation of the determiner. 
The effect of this is to allow the determiner to distribute over the conjuncts. 
Dowty (1988, p. 175) gives the following translation for the conjunction this 
man and woman, where \ stands for the conjunction operator and D is a 
variable of the type that determiners translate into: 
(117) man ) kDD(man¢ ) 
woman ) kDD(woman¢ ) 
man and woman ) kDD(man) \ kDD(woman¢) 
= kD[D(man¢ ) \ D(woman¢ )] 
this man and woman ) kD[D(man¢ ) \ D(woman¢ )](this¢ ) 
=[this¢(man¢ ) \ this¢(woman¢ )] 
As Dowty notes, the meaning obtained is the same as for the full DP conjunction 
this man and this woman. 
In fact Dowty’s ultimate analysis is slightly different, as he argues that it 
is necessary to use Hoeksema’s (1983) collective conjunction (essentially the 
same point is made in Krifka 1990, pp. 165–166). Since this in turn cannot 
be generalized across categories, a non-compositional rule specifically for 
split conjunction has to be stipulated (Dowty 1988, p. 176). In the syntactic 
system that Dowty is using, adapted from Ades and Steedman (1982) and 
Steedman (1985), NP\Det is the syntactic type of a type-raised common 
noun. Thus (118 a) translates into (118 b), where &c is the ‘‘collective conjunction’’ 
of Hoeksema (1983). 
(118)a. [NP\Det NP\Det and NP\Det] 
b. kP[NP\Det¢(P) &c NP\Det¢(P)] 
Dowty makes a virtue of this specific definition, pointing out (the earliest 
place that we have found this observation in the literature) that ‘‘even a 
language as closely related to English as French does not have the collective 
interpretation of conjoined common nouns,’’ and that the same is true of 
Italian and Spanish (Dowty 1988, p. 176); that is, that these languages have 

only the intersective (what we have been calling the joint) reading of 
DP-internal conjunction. 
As we have seen, however, while Italian-type languages do indeed lack 
singular split conjunction, they allow split conjunction in the plural. Hence, 
rather than stipulating a particular interpretation for and in a single language 
(English) that allows the conjunction of two type-raised common 
nouns, it appears instead that it would be necessary to make this interpretation 
available for all plural DP-internal conjunctions in both English-type 
and Italian-type languages, but exclude it in the singular for the latter group 
of languages only. 
We believe that this stipulation is enough to motivate looking elsewhere 
for an account of split coordination. However, it should perhaps be pointed 
out that there are some problems for this analysis even if we remain within 
English. These problems concern the interpretation of numerals and 
adjectives. Since adjectives can occur in conjunctions with the split interpretation, 
they too will have to be made type-ambiguous in order to account 
for the grammaticality of examples like (119), on the (preferred) interpretation 
where the adjective modifies both nouns: 
(119) the unripe peaches and pears 
From this example, where the adjective is a predicate over individuals, it 
appears that it would be necessary in fact to provide another type-raised 
interpretation for common nouns, in order to make it possible for them to 
take the adjective as an argument which can then be applied to each noun. 
However, this is not the only possibility, given the acceptability of examples 
where the adjective is a collective predicate: 
(120)a. that ill-matched man and woman (6¼ that ill-matched man and 
ill-matched woman) 
b. that mutually incompatible man and woman (6¼ that mutually 
incompatible man and mutually incompatible woman) 
This problem is perhaps most striking when numerals are considered. In 
accordance with Hoeksema (1983) we assume that numerals are not in the 
same syntactic class as definites, for various reasons including their possible 
cooccurrence with the/these/those. As shown in section 3.2.2, numerals are 
perfectly acceptable in split conjunctions, but (except for English one) they do 
not apply to each of the conjuncts in turn, as shown by the contrast between 
the split conjunction in (121 a), on the one hand, and (121 b–c), on the other. 
(121)a. those five men and women total = 5 people 
b. those five men and five women total = 10 people 
c. those five men and those five women total = 10 people 

In a compositional semantics, we do not see any way under the type-raising 
approach to get the determiner in (121 a) to apply to each of the conjuncts 
while the numeral gives the number of atoms in the group denoted by the 
conjunction as a whole. 
6.3. The Ellipsis Analysis 
Given the synonymy of a split conjunction like (122 a) with the full DP 
conjunction in (122 b), an obvious line of analysis is to propose that these 
two constructions are in fact syntactically (and semantically) identical; the 
only difference between them is in the phonological spell-out. 
(122)a. My mother and father live in the South. 
b. My mother and my father live in the South. 
That is to say, the split reading arises from ellipsis of (at least) the determiner 
in the second conjunct: 
(123) My mother and my father live in the South. 
We have not found a developed version of this kind of account in the 
literature, but we mention it here as it has been suggested to us on more than 
one occasion as a possible alternative (see also Winter (1998), who raises – 
but like us ultimately rejects – an ellipsis account for split conjunction). 
Although this analysis has some initial plausibility, questions arise 
immediately. For example, consider the contrast in acceptability between 
(124 a) on the one hand and (124 b,c) on the other: 
(124)a.??His stupidly attacking the speaker and general attitude made a 
bad impression. 
b. His stupidly attacking the speaker and his general attitude made 
a bad impression. 
c. His stupid attack on the speaker and (his) general attitude made 
a bad impression. 
Under an ellipsis account, the marginality of (124 a) is surprising, given that 
it is, by hypothesis, simply a phonological variant of (124 b). Further, the 
fact that it also contrasts with (124 c) suggests that it is precisely an 
incompatibility between the verbal features within the gerund in (124 a) and 
the purely nominal second conjunct that gives rise to the reduced acceptability, 
suggesting that the conjunction is indeed of some DP-internal projection. 
The following contrast makes the same point: 
(125)a. That man and the/that woman next to him 
b. *That mani and woman next to himi. 

In addition, the ellipsis analysis has at least the problems that we have 
already identified for the type-raising analysis. First, it offers no insight into 
the crosslinguistic pattern of distribution of the split reading that we have 
documented, and into its availability in the plural in these languages (why 
should plural determiners in these languages be more susceptible to 
ellipsis?). Second, it suffers from the same drawbacks as the type-raising 
account when it comes to collective modifiers like ill-matched or mutually 
incompatible: in (126) and (127), the (a) and (b) cases should differ only in 
whether the second determiner (and numeral) is fully pronounced. But 
(126 b) is ungrammatical and (l27 b) has a reading which (l27 a) does not 
have.49 
(126)a. that ill-matched man and that ill matched woman 
b. *that ill-matched man and that ill-matched woman 
(127)a. those five men and those five women total = 5 people 
b. those five men and those five women total = 10 people 
Note further that the examples in (128) show that numerals cannot undergo 
ellipsis even when they occur between an ellipsed determiner and an ellipsed 
adjective: 
(128)a. My five maternal aunts and uncles were all Methodists (on my 
father’s side they were Anabaptists).
total = 5 maternal relatives 
b. My five maternal aunts and my five maternal uncles were all 
Methodists. 
total = 10 maternal relatives 
6.4. Wide Scope Conjunction and the Strongest Meaning Hypothesis 
Winter (1998, chaps. 7, 8) addresses the problem of split and joint readings 
in the context of a Boolean approach to the semantics of and (Keenan and 
Faltz 1985). His discussion is centered on joint/split readings of plural and 
reciprocal sentential predicates and on the split reading of every with singular 
nominals. 
Consider the plural/reciprocal predicates first. There is an important 
difference in the interpretation of the (a) and (b) cases below. 
49 Even in a theory of ellipsis in which it might be possible to explain how only one of the two 
‘‘copies’’ of the numeral would be interpreted at LF, it remains entirely unclear how one would 
guarantee that the set whose cardinality is being restricted contains at least one member from 
each conjunct (Alan Munn, personal communication). 

(129)a. The girls know each other. 
b. The girls are standing on each other. 
(130)a. The ducks are swimming and quacking. 
b. The ducks are swimming and flying. 
Given what we know about the relation of ‘‘knowing’’, (129 a) is judged false 
in a situation in which not every girl knows every other girl. (129 b), on the 
other hand, cannot require each girl to stand on each other girl, since the 
lexical semantics of standing on plus world knowledge tells us that the 
bottom girl is not standing on anybody. 
On the basis of this contrast, Dalrymple et al. (1994, 1998) propose that 
the strength of a reciprocal may be weakened to the strongest meaning 
which is still compatible with the semantics of the predicates involved — the 
‘Strongest Meaning Hypothesis’. Winter extends this idea to coordinated 
predicates like (130). Here, world knowledge tells us that swimming and 
flying are incompatible at any given moment, while swimming and quacking 
are not. As a result, (130 a,b) are again interpreted differently: 
(131)a. Each duck is simultaneously swimming and quacking. 
b. Some of the ducks are swimming, the others are flying. 
Winter’s formulation of the Strongest Meaning Hypothesis (SMH) generalizes 
it to non-reciprocal predicates: 
(132) Extended Strongest Meaning Hypothesis (SMH) 
A plural predicate whose meaning is derived from one or more 
singular predicates is interpreted using the logically strongest 
truth conditions that are generated from one basic meaning and 
that are not contradicted by known properties of the singular 
predicate(s). (Winter 1998, p. 233) 
In (l30 a), the SMH can afford the strongest possible distributive meaning, 
(133 a); in (130 b) it must apply the different predicates to subparts of the 
whole set of ducks, (133 b). 
(133)a. "x.duck "P.{swim, fly} [P(x)] 
b. 9X,Y,Z[ducks(X) ^Y[Z=X ^ "k[[k.Y fi swimming(k)] ^ 
[k.Z fi flying(k)]]] 
An additional condition states that meanings can never be weakened to the 
point of making one of the properties in the conjunction inapplicable. In 
other words, neither Y nor Z in (133 b) can be empty. 
Winter does not explicitly discuss DP-internal plural predicates, but 
intuitively the SMH can be extended to these cases, mapping the weakened 

interpretation to the split reading with incompatible properties, e.g. (134 a), 
and the joint reading to the purely logical, Boolean meaning which may 
surface in (134 b) because this time the predicates are compatible. 
(134)a. The cats and dogs were licensed. 
b. My friends and colleagues were at the party. 
As formulated, the SMH does not extends to split singular cases like 
(135), which are treated via a completely different mechanism. 
(135) Every cat and dog was licensed. 
Winter proposes that the required meaning is obtained by giving the conjunction 
wide scope: 
(136) every(cat) \ every(dog)(is licensed) 
To this effect, he proposes that the word and and its cognates in other 
languages are actually meaningless and that the conjunctive meaning (the 
meet operation in a Boolean semantics) is available at any level. More 
precisely, two or more conjuncts can be collected into a tuple; a predicate 
applying to the tuple can be applied pointwise to each element in it. At any 
point, the free application of meet can apply to a tuple to generate a single 
element. 
(137)a. ½cat and dogb= <cat,dog> 
b. ½every cat and dogb = every<cat,dog> 
)<every(cat),every(dog)> pointwise application of ‘every’ 
c. every(cat) \ every(dog) application of ‘meet’ to the pair 
The possibility of applying the meet operation at any point is argued to be a 
general property of language, linked to its ‘default’ status (in contrast, for 
instance, to the join operation associated with disjunction). Since meet can 
apply at any level, the pointwise technique must of course be capable of 
distributing sentential predicates and other material, giving conjunction the 
widest possible scope. 
(138) <every(cat),every(dog)>(is licensed) ) <every(cat)(is licensed), 
every(dog)(is licensed)> 
) every(cat)(is licensed) u every(dog)(is licensed) by ‘meet’ 
When applied to the problem of DP-internal conjunction, Winter’s 
approach avoids some of the pitfalls of previous analyses, but tends to 
overgenerate. Most importantly, like the others it offers no prospect of a 
principled account of the crosslinguistic differences. 

The first issue is the very existence of two separate – but in fact overlapping 
– accounts for plural and singular split readings. If singular split 
readings like (139 a) result from wide-scoping conjunction (a universal 
possibility in this system), this operation should also generate plural split 
cases like (139 b). 
(139)a. My cat and dog were waiting for me. 
b. My cats and dogs were waiting for me. 
But as seen above, (139 b) would also have an analysis under the Strongest 
Meaning Hypothesis. Prima facie, this derivational ambiguity might seem 
an advantage, because the SMH wrongly predicts an unambiguously ‘‘joint’’ 
interpretation for examples like (140), since friends and colleagues are 
compatible properties: 
(140) My friends and colleagues were waiting for me. 
Sentence (140) can describe a situation where less than all – even zero – 
people share the two properties.50 The SMH does not admit such drastic 
weakening in the case of a fully distributive predicate like know in (129), so 
the source of the ‘‘weak’’ joint reading above must be sought elsewhere. The 
only candidate seems to be the alternative derivation via wide scoping of 
conjunction. 
But this solution creates other problems. Recall the interpretation of 
examples with numerals, like (121 a), repeated here: 
(141) those five men and women total = 5 people 
A derivation appealing to the SMH can give the correct reading. But the 
alternative derivation involving wide scope conjunction and pointwise 
application will yield the unavailable interpretation (a group of 5 men and 5 
women). 
A further weakness that this account shares with the ellipsis and 
type-raising accounts is that it does not explain the cooccurrence of collective 
predicates and split conjunction (this incompatible man and woman). 
More generally, an approach to split readings in terms of the scope of the 
conjunction seems to allow a reading for (142 a) which is equivalent to 
(142 b): 
50 In fact fully joint readings are typically dispreferred, even when strongly favoured by 
context: 
(i) We want people for this job who can do both linguistics and philosophy. So we 
plan to give this job to the best qualified linguist and philospher. 

(142)a. Every knife and fork matches in style. 
b. Every knife matches in style and every fork matches in style. 
It seems to us, however, that (142 a) would be judged false in a situation in 
which forks matched forks and knives matched knives, but forks did not 
match with knives; (142 b) would of course be true in this scenario. 
Finally, the nature of the two operations proposed to account for split 
readings seems so general that it is hard to explain why in languages like 
Italian these should be productive in the plural, but possible in the singular 
only with the singular quantifiers at the end of section 3.1. Thus this analysis 
also fails to offer any hope of addressing our original question II. 
7. OTHER CASES OF CONJUNCTION 
In the semantic literature, the idea that conjunction must have multiple 
meanings has been based primarily on analyses of the cases in (143), which 
appear to call for an ‘intersection’ and a ‘union’ or ‘group forming’ 
semantics respectively. 
(143)a. John is big and burly. 
b. John and Mary met. 
After reading the previous sections, the reader might wonder if we are 
adding yet another meaning for and to this ambiguity, a meaning to be 
found only in the highly specialized (and relatively rare) context of 
DP-internal coordinations. This could be seen as a step toward empirical 
coverage, but hardly toward explanatory adequacy, since questions of 
learnability and of parsing complexity would immediately arise. 
This is, however, not what we intend. We are proposing set product as a 
candidate for a fully unified, crosslinguistic semantics of and, at any categorical 
level. At the same time, we are convinced that this semantics can 
work only in conjunction with additional principles, some tied to syntactic 
parameters, others pragmatic in nature, yet others due perhaps to more 
general cognitive factors. The enterprise will be successful if we are able to 
show in each case that the interaction between coordination and these 
factors (one example of which is the plural forming strategies seen in the 
previous sections) yields the desired semantics. 
It should be evident that proving a claim of this sort involves a close 
inspection of the behavior of coordination at all levels, a task which cannot 
possibly be taken up in the present article. In this final section, however, we 
want at least to give a bird’s-eye view of what it would mean to apply set 
product at some other levels: what results conjunction would produce, and 
what general assumptions would be needed to supplement it. 

7.1. Coordinations of Predicates 
If John is tall and John is fat, then we want (144) to come out true: 
(144) John is tall and fat. 
The simplest view of the semantics of singular adjectives is that they denote 
sets of singletons. Set product will apply union to each possible pair of 
individuals in the denotation of the two predicates, forming two-membered 
sets if the two individuals differ, singletons if they are the same. Thus, if the 
singleton {john} is present in each predicate, it will be present in the 
denotation of tall and fat. In addition, if John and Mary denotes a plural 
individual, the set product approach licenses an inference from (a) to (b) in 
cases such as (145) and (146).51 
(145)a. Last night, John played and Mary danced at the Jimmie bar. 
b. Last night, John and Mary played and danced at the Jimmie bar. 
(146)a. John is a linguist and Mary is a philosopher. 
b. {John and Mary/These two people} are a linguist and a 
philosopher. 
This pattern seems to be acceptable, even in the absence of respectively, and 
it is not captured by a union or intersection approach without further 
assumptions (see the discussion on the Strongest Meaning Hypothesis in 
section 6.4 above). However, using other predicates we have sentences that 
have the flavor of a contradiction. 
(147)a. ??My grandparents were taller than me and much shorter than 
me. 
b. #My grandparents died in Normandy and drowned in the 
Pacific. 
c. ??My friends know German and don’t know any European 
language. 
Evidently, pragmatics (and the Strongest Meaning Hypothesis) should 
favour a distributive reading over the plurality, yet this reading is not readily 
available. In yet other cases, the sentences become worse with certain 
choices of subjects. Consider, in particular, the case of coordinate subjects at 
least one of which is a quantifier. 
(148)a. (At the conference,) John was a linguist and every Italian was a 
philosopher. 
51 Here and in the following examples, we assume that sentence-conjoining and has the 
standard propositional semantics. See below for some comments. 

b. *John and every Italian were a linguist and a philosopher. 
(149)a. Most Scots must be linguists and some Italians must be 
philosophers. 
b. ??Most Scots and some Italians must be linguists and philosophers 
(in the ‘‘mixed’’ reading) 
(150)a. More than two women are linguists and more than three men 
are philosophers. 
b. ??More than two women and more than three men are linguists 
and philosophers. 
(in the ‘‘mixed’’ reading) 
Thus, in this area our semantics must be constrained by additional principles. 
We will not address the problems raised by (147) here, but we do have 
some comments on (148)–(150), at the end of the next section. 
7.2. DP Coordination 
The two leading proposals for the semantics of noun phrases take them to 
denote either individuals (sets of atoms, in our approach) or generalized 
quantifiers (sets of properties, i.e. sets of sets of sets of atoms in our proposal). 
A popular view since Partee and Rooth (1983), Partee (1987) is that 
type-shifting between these two denotations is also possible, subject to 
various constraints. 
Consider the first possibility, that full DPs denote individuals. An 
immediate problem is that the application of SP to sets which do not contain 
other sets is undefined. 
(151) ½John and Maryb =SP({j},{m}) undefined! 
One solution is to apply a covert operator, call it Q for ‘‘Quine’’, which 
shifts individuals into singular properties. Now SP can apply: 
(152) ½John and Maryb = SP ({j}, {m}) ) Qtype-shift 
SP({{j}, {{m}})={{j,m}} 
Here, set product mimics union or group formation, yielding a plural 
individual (or perhaps, if further type-shifting applies, a GQ built on it) 
which is a suitable denotation to combine with cumulative predicates such 
as meet.52 In this respect, our semantics for conjunction can be considered a 
generalization of the classic ‘‘collective’’ or ‘‘non-boolean’’ and of Hoek- 
52 Q might be independently needed to interpret equatives: 
(i) Mark Twain is (probably) Samuel Clements. 

sema (1983, 1988), Krifka (1990), Lasersohn (1995) – see especially the 
latter, sec. 14.4 for a similar proposal in an event-based framework. 
Now let’s consider the second possibility: DPs denote generalized 
quantifiers (GQs). Thus, John denotes the set of properties which are true of 
John, i.e. kP[P({j})], and the same for Mary. What happens if we apply set 
product to these denotations? 
(153) ½John and Maryb =SP(kP[P({j})],kQ[Q({m})]) 
Given the definition of SP, the result will be a set containing the result of the 
union of each property John has with each property Mary has. Say the two 
properties involved in the union are P and Q. If P ¼ Q (i.e. if John and Mary 
share a property), then [(P,Q) ¼ P ¼ Q. This means that the set of all properties 
which are common to John and Mary, i.e. the intersection between the 
two GQs, will still be represented in the output of SP. Next, if Mary has 
property P and John has property Q, and PQ, then [(P,Q) ¼ Q, i.e. only the 
most general property is preserved in the conjunction. This is as it should be: if 
John is from England and Mary is from the South of England it is fair to 
conclude that John and Mary are from England, nothing more. Finally, if 
Mary has property P and John doesn’t have any property R such that R . P, 
then P will not be present in the conjunction of the GQs John and Mary, since 
for every Q John does have, [(P,Q)P. Thus in this case, set product mimics 
intersection. Interestingly, the same reasoning holds for the conjunction of 
more complex GQ such as (154), as the reader can verify. 
(154) ½John and between 1 and 3 womenb =SP(kP[P({j})],kQ["X . 
(women\Q)j X j  3]) 
One could wonder whether the set product operation doesn’t end up 
introducing undesirable properties, for instance properties that neither GQ 
conjunct independently has. There are two main cases to take into account. 
Consider first GQs which are monotonically increasing in their second 
argument, like proper names, or numerals like three or more. In this case it 
can be shown that no extra property is added. Suppose, for instance, that 
the following holds: 
(155)a. John is fat (and he is not tall) 
b. Mary is tall (and she is not fat) 
By weakening, the following must also be true; the disjunction is simply 
validated by its first member. 
(156)a. John is fat or tall. 
b. Mary is tall or fat. 

If disjunction takes narrow scope, the property R ¼ ½fat or tall must be in 
kP[P({j})] and in kQ[Q({m})] (i.e., these GQs are closed under disjunction). 
But R is precisely one of the elements in the set returned by applying SP to 
the GQs John and Mary. 
(157) [(½fatb,½tallb)=½fat or tallb 
Thus, SP isn’t adding any property which isn’t already common to the GQ 
conjuncts. 
The conjunction of GQs is more problematic in the case of quantifiers 
which are not monotone increasing in their second argument (e.g. no, 
exactly 2, less than 20). If (158 a) is true, it doesn’t follow that (158 b) is 
true. 
(158)a. Exactly 2 people are children. 
b. Exactly 2 people are human beings. 
When applied to the GQs built with these determiners, set product validates 
the incorrect inference from (a) and (b) to (c) in (159) and (160).53 
(159)a. [Exactly two children in the group] were males. 
b. [Exactly two adults in the group] were females. 
c. [Exactly two children] and [exactly two adults] in the group were 
people. 
(160)a. [No children in the group] were males. 
b. [No adults in the group] were females. 
c. [No children] and [no adults] in the group were people. 
However, it is worth noting that the class of GQs where the problem 
appears has received alternative analyses for reasons quite independent of 
coordination. For instance, a popular approach for no and other negative 
quantifiers has been to factor no into an external negative operator that 
combines with a (singular) indefinite (161), which is monotone increasing 
(see Ladusaw 1992). 
(161) NEG. . . [DP De [ [PlP a children] and [PlP a adults]]] were people. 
As for the case of ‘exact numerals’, Krifka (1999) points out that treatment 
of these elements in terms of standard Generalized Quantifiers makes 
false predictions in various domains (see also Landman 2000). One alternative 
is to see exactly as a sentential adverbial which applies to the ‘normal’ 
53 This is assuming that people ¼ males+females. Note that the system sketched above would 
not validate the inference to Exactly two children and exactly two adults in the group were male 
and female. 

interpretation for cardinal numerals (an existential quantifier over pluralities 
with a cardinal filter, see section 4.2) and blocks certain scalar implicatures 
normally associated with numerals. Spelling this out would again go beyond 
the purpose of this overview, but there is one aspect of this approach which 
might immediately appear counterintuitive, and which can be easily defused. 
Exactly can be associated with only one conjunct, as in (162). 
(162) John and exactly one woman met. 
Regarding exactly not as a determiner but as an operator with scope wider 
than the conjunction appears to run against well-known scope island effects 
attributed to coordination. Consider however (163): 
(163) I interviewed [10 men but only 3 women] 
There is widespread agreement that only is not a determiner (since it doesn’t 
respect Conservativity), but rather an operator over comparison classes 
which are built using the predicate. Despite this, only has no problem 
appearing within a single conjunct. Whatever the proper analysis of these 
cases, it seems likely that the same method could be applied to exactly in 
(162). 
The possibility of existential quantification over plural individuals is 
crucial in other cases. Take a party scenario with 3 guests on the balcony 
and 3 in the bedroom. In this situation, (164 a) is clearly false (assuming that 
3 guests don’t count as ‘‘many’’). Yet, (164 b) and (164 c) seem to have a true 
reading (admittedly, less natural in (164 c)). 
(164)a. At present, [{exactly 6 / more than 5 / many} guests] are on the 
balcony or [{most / exactly 6 / more than 5} guests] are in the 
bedroom. 
b. At present, there are [{exactly 6 / more than 5 / many} guests] on 
the balcony and in the bedroom. 
c. At present, [{exactly 6 / more than 5 / many} guests] are on the 
balcony and in the bedroom. 
Examples (164 b,c) would be false if 6 guests were amassed in the bedroom 
but nobody was on the balcony – a situation in which the same sentence 
with and replaced by or would be judged true. How does set product fare in 
obtaining these ‘cumulative’ readings? Assuming that the set product conjunction 
of on the balcony and in the bedroom has been pluralized, the 
resulting denotation will contain the plural individual formed by the six 
guests, but no individual guest (its minimal elements will be pairs of guests). 
This denotation will be a member of the bracketed quantifiers in (164 b,c) 
only if these are rendered as existentials over pluralities, as in e.g. (165 b), 

and not as cardinal quantifiers over singular individuals, like e.g. 6 or more 
in (165 c) (see Barwise and Cooper 1981, p. 169). 
(165)a. More than 5 guests are on the balcony and in the bedroom. 
b. kP 9X [guests¢(X) ^ j X j>5 ^ P(X)] 
(*SP(on_the_balcony¢,in_the_bedroom¢)) True 
c. kP 9x1 . . . 9x6[x1 6¼x2 ^ x1 6¼x3 ^ . . . ^x5 6¼x6 ^ guest¢(x1) ^ . . . ^ 
guest¢(x6) ^ P(x1) ^ . . . ^ P(x6)] 
(*SP(on_the_balcony¢,in_the_bedroom¢)) ” 
kP 6x[guest¢(x) ^ P(x)] 
(*SP(on_the_balcony¢,in_the_bedroom¢)) False 
Abstracting away from the difference between (164) (b) and (c), this leads 
us to expect, probably correctly, that the ‘cumulative’ readings in (164) 
should be unobtainable with genuine singular quantifiers like every/each, 
as in (166). 
(166) #Every/Each guest was on the balcony and in the bedroom. 
One last issue to consider here is the relation between the conjunction of 
GQs and the conjunction of predicates. With a single GQ subject, in (167), 
(c) follows from (a) or (b) if both tall and fat are present in the GQ for 
every boy (kQ "X[boy¢(X) fi Q(X)]) and no boy (kQ:9X[boy¢(X) ^ 
Q(X)]). 
(167)a. Every boy was tall and every boy was fat. 
b. No boy was tall and no boy was fat. 
c. Every/no boy was tall and fat. 
But interestingly, bad ‘mixed conjunctions’ like (168), repeated from (148), 
can now be distinguished from the acceptable mixed coordinations seen in 
(145) and (146). 
(168)a. (At the conference,) John was a linguist and every Italian was a 
philosopher. 
b.*John and every Italian were a linguist and a philosopher. 
The difference is that cases like (168) must be conjunctions of GQs, since one 
of the conjuncts is a GQ. However, the property of being a linguist and a 
philosopher (the set product of ½ linguist  and ½ philosopher, a set of pairs or 
singular individuals) will not be present in ½ John and each Italian , the set 
containing the union of the properties of John and of each Italian – unless 
the conjoined property is independently present in each conjunct, i.e. only if 
(169) is true. 

(169) John was a linguist and a philosopher and each Italian was a 
linguist and a philosopher. 
But of course, (168 a) does not validate (169). On the other hand, John 
and Mary played and danced (from (145)) will be true because John and 
Mary can be interpreted as a conjunction of individuals and yield a 
plural individual which may be present in the set product of played and 
danced. 
7.3. Coordination at Higher Levels 
As might be expected, the level which is less susceptible to an approach 
along the lines of the one presented here is the coordination of sentences, 
and in particular truth-value bearing declaratives. The problem here is not 
so much to understand what kinds of sets would be conjoined by set product 
in coordinations such as (170) (candidates that come to mind are (sets of) 
events, sets of answers, sets of worlds where the imperatives have been 
obeyed), but whether the tuples of elements predicted by the application of 
set product actually play a role in the interpretation of these coordinations 
and, if not, how they can be filtered away. 
(170)a. John left and Mary returned. 
b. When did John arrive and how did he get in? 
c. Go and get lost! 
One possible avenue to explore relies on events; if two sentences denote two 
distinct events e1 and e2 their set product conjunction {{ e1, e2}}, obtained as 
in (152) above, could be the base on which event ordering is defined. 
Unfortunately, at this stage we must leave these speculations entirely 
unexplored. 
8. CONCLUSIONS 
There is a long history of using conjunction as a tool to probe the syntax 
of non-coordinated structures (often with controversial results: see, for 
example, Steedman 2000). In this paper we have attempted simultaneously 
to use conjunction in a new way as a tool for exploring the syntax and 
semantics of nominal projections and to develop a semantics for conjunction 
that covers this case but which holds out the possibility of being 
extensible beyond it. 
Conjunction, so simple in appearance, does not give up its mysteries 
easily; we hope at least to have shown that there are additional readings that 

any fully adequate account for conjunction will have to give an account of, 
and that anchoring these readings to syntactic projections can lead to 
important and potentially far-reaching insights. 
REFERENCES 
Abney, S. P.: 1987, The English Noun Phrase in its Sentential Aspect, PhD thesis, MIT. 
Ades, A. and M. Steedman: 1982, ‘On the Order of Words’, Linguistics and Philosophy 4, 517– 
538. 
Barwise, J. and R. Cooper: 1981, ‘Generalized Quantifiers and Natural Language’, Linguistics 
and Philosophy 4, 159–219. 
Bayer, S.: 1996. ‘The Coordination of Unlike Categories’, Language 72(3), 579–616. 
Bergmann, M.: 1982, ‘Cross-categorial Semantics’, Linguistics and Philosophy 5, 299–401. 
Bernstein, J.: 1993, Topics in the Syntax of Nominal Structure across Romance, PhD thesis, 
CUNY. 
Bunt, C. H.: 1981, The Formal Semantics of Mass Terms. PhD thesis, University of Amsterdam. 
Bunt, C. H.: 1985, Mass Terms and Model-Theoretic Semantics, Cambridge University Press, 
Cambridge. 
Carden, G.: 1976, English Quantifiers: Logical Structure and Linguistic Variation, Academic 
Press, London. 
Cheng, C.-Y.: 1973, ‘Response to Moravcsik’, in J. Hintikka, J. Moravczik, and P. Suppes 
(eds.), Approaches to Natural Language, pp. 286–288. Reidel, Dordrecht. 
Chierchia, G.: 1998 a, ‘Plurality of Mass Nouns and the Notion of ‘‘Semantic Parameter’’ ’, in 
S. Rothstein (ed.), Events and Grammar, pp. 53–104. Kluwer, Dordrecht. 
Chierchia, G.: 1998 b, ‘Reference to Kinds across Languages’, Natural Language Semantics 6, 
339–405. 
Chomsky, N.: 1995, The Minimalist Program, MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass. 
Chomsky, N.: 2000, ‘Minimalist Inquiries: The Framework’, in R. Martin, D. Michaels, and 
J. Uriagereka (eds.), Step by Step, pp. 89–155. MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass. 
Chomsky, N.: 2001, ‘Derivation by Phase’, in M. Kenstowicz (ed.), Ken Hale: A Life in Language, 
pp. 1–52. MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass. 
Cinque, G.: 1994. ‘Partial N-Movement in the Romance DP’, in G. Cinque et al. (eds.), Paths 
Towards Universal Grammar, pp. 85–110. Georgetown University Press, Washington, D.C. 
Contretas, H.: 1986, ‘Spanish Bare NPs and the ECP’, in I. Bordelois, H. Contreras, and 
K. Zagona (eds.), Generative Studies in Spanish Syntax. Foris, Dordrecht. 
Cooper, R: 1979, ‘Model Theory for a Fragment of English Syntax’, draft chapter of a projected 
book, Madison, Wisconsin. 
Corbett: 2000, Number, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge. 
Crisma, P.: 1991, ‘Functional Categories inside the Noun Phrase: A Study on the Distribution of 
Nominal Modifiers’, honors thesis, University of Venice. 
Dalrymple, M., M. Kanazawa, S. Mchombo, and S. Peters: 1994, ‘What Do Reciprocals 
Mean?’, in M. Harvey and L. Santelmann (eds.), Proceedings of Semantics and Linguistics 
Theory 4, pp. 61–78. Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y. 
Dalrymple, M., M. Kanazawa, Y. Kim, S. Mchombo, and S. Peters: 1998, ‘Reciprocal 
Expressions and the Concept of Reciprocity’, Linguistics and Philosophy 21, 159–210. 
Dowty, D.: 1988, ‘Type Raising, Functional Composition, and Non-Constitutent Conjunction’, 
in R. Oehrle, E. Bach, and D. Wheeler (eds.), Categorial Grammars and Natural Language 
Structures, pp. 153–198. Reidel, Dordrecht. 
Gillon, B.: 1992, ‘Towards a Common Semantics for English Count and Mass Nouns’, Linguistics 
and Philosophy 13, 597–640. 

Giusti, G.: 1991, ‘The Categorial Status of Quantified Nominals’, Linguistische Berichte 136, 
438–452. 
Giusti, G.: 1992, La Sintassi dei Sintagmi Nominali Quantificati: Uno Studio Comparativo, PhD 
thesis, University of Venice. 
Heim, I.: 1982, The Semantics of Definite and Indefinite Noun Phrases, PhD thesis, University of 
Massachusetts at Amherst. 
Heycock, C. and R. Zamparelli: 1999, ‘Toward a Unified Analysis of DP Conjunction’, in P. 
Dekker (ed.), Proceedings of the Twelfth Amsterdam Colloquium, pp. 127–132. Universiteit 
van Amsterdam. 
Heycock, C. and R. Zamparelli: 2000, ‘Plurality and NP-Coordination’, in M. Hirotani et al. 
(eds.), Proceedings of NELS 30, pp. 341–352. GLSA, University of Massachusetts at 
Amherst. 
Heycock, C. and R. Zamparelli: 2003, ‘Coordinated Bare Definites’, Linguistic Inquiry 34(3), 
443–469. 
Higginbotham, J.: 1983, ‘Indefiniteness and Predication’, in E. Reuland and A. ter Meulen 
(eds.), The Representation of (In)Definiteness. pp. 43–70, MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass. 
Hoeksema, J.: 1983, ‘Plurality and Conjunction’, in A. G. B. ter Meulen (ed.), Studies in Model- 
Theoretic Semantics, pp. 63–84. Foris, Dordrecht. 
Hoeksema, J.: 1988, ‘The Semantic of Non-boolean and’, Journal of Semantics 6, 19–40. 
Hudson, W.: 1989, ‘Functional Categories and the Saturation of Noun Phrases’, in J. Carter 
and R. Dechaine (eds.), Proceedings of NELS 19, pp. 207–222. GLSA, University of 
Massachusetts at Amherst. 
Kadmon, N.: 1987, On Unique and Non-Unique Reference and Asymmetrical Quantification. 
PhD thesis, University of Massachusetts at Amherst. 
Kayne, R.: 1991, ‘Romance Clitics, Verb Movement, and PRO’, Linguistic Inquiry 22, 647–686. 
Keenan, E. L. and L. M. Faltz: 1985, Boolean Semantics for Natural Languages, Kluwer, 
Dordrecht. 
Keenan, E. L. and J. Stavi: 1986, ‘A Semantic Characterization of Natural Language Determiners’, 
Linguistics and Philosophy 9, 253–326. 
King, T. H. and M. Dalrymple: 2004, ‘Determiner Agreement and Noun Conjunction’, Journal 
of Linguistics 40(1), 69–104. 
Kratzer, A.: 1989, ‘An Investigation of the Lumps of Thought’, Linguistics and Philosophy 12, 
607–653. 
Krifka, M.: 1990, ‘Boolean and Non-Boolean ‘and’’, in L. Ka´ lma´ n and L. Po´ los (eds.), Papers 
from the Second Symposium on Logic and Language, pp. 161–188. Akade´ miai Kiado´ , 
Budapest. 
Krifka, M.: 1999, ‘At Least Some Determiners Aren’t Determiners’, in K. Turner (ed.), The 
Semantics/Pragmatics Interface from Different Points of View. Vol. 1, pp. 257–291. Elsevier, 
Oxford. 
Krifka, M.: 2003, ‘Bare NPs: Kind-Referring, Indefinites, Both or Neither?’, in R. B. Young 
and Y. Zhou, Proceedings of SALT 13, pp. 180–203. CLC Publications, Cornell University, 
Ithaca, N.Y. 
Krifka, M. et al.: 1995, ‘Genericity: An Introduction’, pp. 1–124. The University of Chicago 
Press, Chicago. 
Ladusaw, W.: 1992, ‘Expressing Negation’, in C. Barker and D. Dowty (eds.), Proceedings of 
SALT 2, pp. 236–259. CLS, Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y. 
Landman, F.: 1989, ‘Groups, I’, Linguistics and Philosophy 12, 559–605. 
Landman, F.: 2000, ‘Predicate-Argument Mismatches and the Adjectival Theory of Indefinites’, 
manuscript. To appear in the proceedings of the Antwerpen Conference on NP-DP, 2000. 
Lasersohn, P.: 1995, Plurality, Conjunction and Events, Kluwer, Dordrecht. 
Lecarme, J.: 2002, ‘Gender Polarity: Theoretical Aspects of Somali Nominal Morphology’, in P. 
Boucher (ed.), Many Morphologies, pp. 109–141. Cascadilla Press, Somerville, Mass. 

Leonard, H. and N. Goodman: 1940, ‘The Calculus of Individuals and Its Uses’, Journal of 
Symbolic Logic 5, 45–55. 
Link, G.: 1983, ‘The Logical Analysis of Plurals and Mass Terms: A Lattice-Theoretical 
Approach’, in R. Ba¨ uerle, C. Schwarze, and A. von Stechow (eds.), Meaning, Use, and the 
Interpretation of Language, pp. 302–323. De Gruyter, Berlin. 
Link, G.: 1987, ‘Generalized Quantifiers and Plurals’, in P. Gaerdenfors (ed.), Generalized 
Quantifiers, pp. 151–180. Reidel, Dordrecht. 
Longobardi, G.: 1994, ‘Proper Names and the Theory of N-Movement in Syntax and Logical 
Form’, Linguistic Inquiry 25, 609–665. 
Longobardi, G.: 1999, ‘How Comparative is Semantics? A Unified Parametric Theory of Bare 
Nouns and Proper Names’, manuscript, Universita` di Trieste. 
Munn, A. and C. Schmitt: 2005, ‘Number and Indefinites’, Lingua 115, 821–855. 
Partee, B. H.: 1987, ‘Noun Phrase Interpretation and Type-Shifting Principles’, in F. Groenendijk 
et al. (eds.), Studies in Discourse Representation Theory and the Theory of 
Generalized Quantifiers, pp. 115–143. Foris, Dordrecht. 
Partee, B. and M. Rooth: 1983, ‘Generalized Conjunction and Type Ambiguity’, in R. Ba¨ uerle, 
C. Schwarze, and A. von Stechow (eds.), Meaning, Use, and Interpretation of Language, pp. 
361–383. De Gruyter, Berlin. 
Payne, J.: 1985, ‘Complex Phrases and Complex Sentences’, in T. Shopen (ed.), Language 
Typology and Syntactic Description, Vol. 2: Complex Constructions, pp. 3–41. Cambridge 
University Press, Cambridge. 
Pelletier, F. J. and L. K. Schubert: 1989, ‘Mass Expressions’, in D. Gabbay and F. Guenthner 
(eds.), Handbook of Philosophical Logic, Vol. 4, pp. 327–407. Kluwer, Dordrecht. 
Permutter, D.: 1971, ‘On the Article in English’, in M. Bierwisch and K. E. Heidolph (eds.), 
Progress in Linguistics: A Collection of Papers, pp. 233–248. Mouton, The Hague. 
Pullum, G. and A. Zwicky: 1986, ‘Phonological Resolution of Syntactic Feature Conflict’, 
Language, 62, 751–773. 
Quine, W.: 1960, Word and Object. MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass. 
Ritter, E.: 1991, ‘Two Functional Categories in Noun Phrases: Evidence from Modem Hebrew’, 
in S. Rothstein (ed.), Syntax and Semantics, Vol. 26, pp. 37–62. Academic Press, San Diego. 
Scha, R.: 1981, ‘Distributive, Collective and Cumulative Quantification’, in J. Groenendijk, 
T. Janssen and M. Stokhof (eds.), Formal Methods in the Study of Language, pp. 483–512. 
Mathematisch Centrum, Amsterdam. 
Schwarzschild, R. S.: 1996, Pluralities, Kluwer, Dordrecht. 
Schwarzschild, R.: 2002, ‘The Grammar of Measurement’, in B. Jackson (ed.), Proceedings of 
SALT 12, pp. 225–246. CLC Publications, Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y. 
Sharvy, R.: 1980, ‘A More General Theory of Definite Descriptions’, The Philosophical Review 
89, 607–624. 
Shieber, S.: 1985, ‘An Introduction to Unification-Based Approaches to Grammar’, presented 
as a tutorial session of the ACL, Chicago. 
Siloni, T.: 1994, Noun Phrases and Nominalizations. PhD thesis, University of Geneva. 
Sportiche, D.: 1988, ‘A Theory of Floating Quantifiers and Its Corollaries for Constituent 
Structure’, Linguistic Inquiry 19, 425–449. 
Steedman, M.: 1985, ‘Dependency and Coordination in the Grammar of Dutch and English’, 
Language 6, 523–568. 
Steedman, M.: 2000, The Syntactic Process, MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass. 
Stowell, T.: 1983, ‘Subjects Across Categories’, The Linguistic Review 2, 285–312. 
Valois, D.: 1991, ‘Internal Syntax of DP’, PhD thesis, University of California, Los Angeles. 
Van Geenhoven, V.: 1996, Semantic Incorporation and Indefinite Descriptions. PhD thesis, 
University of Tu¨ bingen. 
Verkuyl, H. J.: 1981, ‘Numerals and Quantifiers in X-bar Syntax and Their Semantic Interpretation’, 
in J. Groenendijk, T. Janssen, and M. Stokhof (eds.), Formal Methods in the 
Study of Language, pp. 567–599. Mathematisch Centrum, Amsterdam. 

Wechsler, S. and L. Zlatic´ : 2000, ‘A Theory of Agreement and Its Application to 
Serbo-Croatian’, Language 76(4), 799–832. 
Winter, Y.: 1996, ‘A Unified Semantic Treatment of Singular NP Coordination’, Linguistics and 
Philosophy 19, 337-391. 
Winter, Y.: 1998, Flexible Boolean Semantics, PhD thesis, Universiteit Utrecht. 
Winter, Y.: 2001, Flexible Principles in Boolean Semantics, MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass. 
Zamparelli, R.: 1995, ‘Layers in the Determiner Phrase’, PhD thesis, University of Rochester. 
(Published by Garland, 2000.) 
Zamparelli, R.: 1998, ‘A Theory of Kinds, Partitives and OF/Z Possessives’, in A. Alexiadou and 
C. Wilder (eds.), Possessors, Predicates and Movement in the Determiner Phrase, pp. 259– 
301. John Benjamins, Amsterdam. 
Zimmermann, T. E.: 1993, ‘On the Proper Treatment of Opacity in Certain Verbs’, Natural 
Language Semantics 1, 149–179. 
Caroline Heycock 
School of Philosophy, Psychology and Language Sciences 
University of Edinburgh 
AFB George Square 
Edinburgh EH8 9LL 
UK 
E-mail: heycock@ling.ed.ac.uk 
Roberto Zamparelli 
Facolta` di Lettere 
Universita` di Bergamo 
Sede S. Agostino 
24100 Bergamo 
Italy 
E-mail: roberto@unibg.it 

